WELCOME TO THE APRIL
4TH TWENTY TWENTY THREE MEETING
OF THE ANIMAL PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR DETAILED
INFORMATION ABOUT THE MEETING
YOU CAN CONSULT THE AGENDA DOWN
USUALLY AT THE END AT THIS END
.
WHAT'S THAT?
OH, SORRY.
>> LET'S MEXICO.
WILL YOU CALL THE ROLL OR MR.
LEONARD WHOMEVER MAKES SENSE.
YES.
I'M ACTUALLY GOING TO ASK
PLANNING MANAGER LEONARD TO DO
IT.
>> I WAS SUPPOSED TO GO THE
OTHER COMMISSIONER GET RANDALL
PRESENT COMMISSIONER MILLS HERE
.
MR. DISH HERE.
COMMISSIONER CLARK.
>> YEAH.
COMMISSIONER WHITE'S HERE.
COMMISSIONER APRON'S
COMMISSIONER SAUVé HERE.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
HERE.
COMMISSIONER HERE WE HAVE A
QUORUM THIS EVENING.
>> THANK YOU.
ALREADY APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA.
CAN I HAVE A MOTION BY
COMMISSIONER M. SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER DISH.
ANY DISCUSSION ON THE AGENDA,
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY I I
MOTION PASSES OK MINUTES OF THE
PREVIOUS MEETING I AM NUMBER
FOUR.
WE HAVE TO SO I'M GOING TO TAKE
THEM TOGETHER.
THIS IS FROM JANUARY 24TH AND
MARCH 21ST OF TWENTY 23 JANUARY
4TH NOT TWENTY FOURTH
OF JANUARY 4TH 24TH 4TH SORRY
TYPO ON MY END LET'S SEE.
MOVED BY COMMISSIONER SILVER
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER ANY
DISCUSSION OF THE MEETING
MINUTES NON ALREADY ALL THOSE
IN FAVOR SAY I MOTION CARRIES
ALL RIGHT ITEM FIVE WHICH ARE
REPORTS FROM CITY
ADMINISTRATION CITY COUNCIL
PLANNING MANAGER PLANNING
COMMISSION OFFICERS THINGS LIKE
THAT.
WHY DON'T WE START WITH CITY
COUNCIL COMMISSIONER DID HER
COUNCIL PERCENTAGE SHOULD SAY I
ANSWER TO BOTH THE NORTH MAPLE
REZONING AND DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT AND I PLAN WERE
WARMLY AND ENTHUSIASTICALLY
PASSED BY COUNCIL LAST NIGHT.
IT WAS THE FINAL APPROVAL AND I
DON'T THINK ANYTHING ELSE WAS
RELEVANT TO YOU BUT MAYBE UH
LET'S SEE ANYTHING FROM
PLANNING MANAGER.
>> I WAS JUST A COUPLE UPDATES
FOR OUR WORKING SESSION NEXT
WEEK WE'RE ANTICIPATING A
PRESENTATION FROM THE ANN ARBOR
DAY WHO HAD RECENTLY COMPLETED
A DOWNTOWN MARKET ANALYSIS KIND
OF A SNAPSHOT OF THE STATE
OF DOWNTOWN POST COVID ON THE
LIKE SO WILL BE JUST A BRIEF
PRESENTATION DURING THAT
WORKING SESSION NEXT WEEK AND I
JUST DO WANT TO NOTE I KNOW
THAT THERE'S A COMMUNICATIONS
SECTION ON THE AGENDA.
WE HAVE A NUMBER OF HANDOUTS
FOR Y THIS EVENING WE
ENDEAVORED TO PULL A LOT OF THE
COMMUNICATIONS FROM THE
PREVIOUS MEETING WHERE THIS
PETITION WAS SCHEDULED AND IT
HAD TO BE POSTPONED DUE TO SOME
WEATHER
RELATED EVENTS AND SOME
DUE TO THE WEATHER.
THE CATASTROPHIC WEATHER.
AND SO ORIGINALLY WE HAD PULLED
THOSE MEDIA MATERIALS.
BUT IN FRONT OF YOU YOU HAVE A
SERIES OF CORRESPONDENTS THAT
THE COMMISSION HAD RECEIVED
PRIOR TO THAT MEETING RELATIVE
TO THAT PETITION AGAIN THE
COMMISSION'S ALREADY SEEN ALL
OF THOSE BUT WE DID ASSEMBLE
THOSE AND PRINT THOSE OFF.
SO THAT'S BASED ON THE VOLUME
THIS EVENING.
>> PERFECT.
OK, THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONER OFFICES
OR LIAISONS GO AHEAD.
>> COMMISSIONER SAUVé OR C MET
LAST WEEK.
WE DISCUSSED HOW THE UDC
MEASURES BUILDING AS WELL AS
GRADE POINT.
SO WE'RE EVALUATING THAT A
LITTLE BIT FURTHER RIGHT NOW
FOR CONSISTENCY AND I HAVE
SOMETHING TO REPORT FROM
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION AND
COMMISSIONER DISMUKES, YOU
SHOULD FEEL FREE TO ADD TO THIS
IF YOU LIKE.
THERE IS A RESOLUTION THAT'S
BEING PUT TOGETHER ON
PROHIBITING NATURAL GAS
CONNECTIONS FOR THAT AND I KNOW
THAT THERE'S, YOU KNOW,
MOVEMENT AFOOT ON STAFF END TO
BE RESEARCHING THAT.
HOWEVER, THERE WAS ANOTHER
ELEMENT THAT I THOUGHT MIGHT BE
INTERESTING FOR US TO CONSIDER
BECAUSE WE YOU KNOW, WE'VE
HEARD HOW STYMIED YOU ALL HAVE
BEEN IN TERMS OF LEGAL AND
THINGS LIKE THAT AND YOU KNOW,
ISSUES THAT YOU'RE RUNNING INTO
.
WE GET REMINDERS ON A WEEKLY
BASIS FROM ALL THE PEOPLE THAT
ARE TRYING TO SUE US ON THINGS
LIKE THINGS LIKE THIS.
>> SO WE'RE PRESSURE ON BOTH
SIDES OF THAT.
YEAH, RIGHT.
RIGHT.
YES, THAT'S VERY TRUE.
BUT ONE OF THE THINGS THAT THE
SECOND PART OF THE RESOLUTION
WAS AROUND THINGS THAT WE HAVE
MORE CONTROL OVER SO POTENTIAL
FOR RESTRUCTURING OF FEES OR
PRIORITY PROCESSING OR BEING
ABLE TO GIVE TAX CREDITS WHICH
CLEARLY WOULDN'T BE OUR PURVIEW
TO BE ABLE TO DO BUT THAT WILL
BE HEADING TOWARDS CITY COUNCIL
HAS NOT BEEN PASSED YET BUT
IT'LL BE HEADING TOWARD CITY
COUNCIL.
SO IF THIS WERE TO PASS AND
THEN CITY COUNCIL WERE TO PASS
IT, THEN IT WOULD COME BACK TO
US.
SO I JUST WANTED TO GIVE YOU
ALL KIND OF A HEADS UP THAT
THAT'S IN THE WORKS AND AND IF
WE YOU KNOW, OUR FEELING LIKE
THE PACE OF THIS OTHER THIS
OTHER MOMENTUM IS IS FEELING
KIND OF FRUSTRATINGLY SLOW
BECAUSE OF A LOT OF THINGS WE
CAN'T CONTROL.
HERE ARE SOME THINGS WE
ACTUALLY CAN CONTROL.
SO I JUST WANTED TO PUT THAT IN
FRONT OF ALL OF YOU TO BE ABLE
TO THINK ABOUT THAT AS WE'RE
MOVING FORWARD.
OK, ONTO ITEM NUMBER SIX WHICH
IS PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE THAT IS
NOT LISTED ON THE PUBLIC
HEARING THIS AGENDA.
SO ANYTHING TONIGHT FOR THE
CREDIT UNION WOULD NOT BE NOW
THAT WOULD HAPPEN LATER WHEN
WHEN WE'RE DISCUSSING THAT.
SO WE'LL FIRST CALL IN PEOPLE
WHO ARE PRESENT HERE AND THEN
WE'LL CALL ON FOLKS WHO ARE
REMOTE AND TO SPEAK DURING THIS
PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY PRESS
STAR NINE IF LISTENING BY PHONE
OR USE TO RAISE A HAND FEATURE
IF YOU'RE GOING TO THE WEBLINK
FOR PHONE ACCESS, CALL 877
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND ENTER A MEETING I'D
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX AND TWO ON
MUTE PRESS STAR SIX CITY STAFF
SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED
THEIR HAND USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER OR
BY YOUR NAME.
IF YOU'RE VIEWING THROUGH THE
WEBLINK YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A
QUIET PLACE SO THAT WE CAN HEAR
YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER METHOD
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING OF OF
YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYBODY HERE THAT
WOULD LIKE TO BEGIN PUBLIC
COMMENT AND THINGS THAT ARE NOT
ON TONIGHT'S AGENDA
MAKING SURE
GET RANDALL KENT GARBER 28
HILCORP YOU CAN GUESS MY TOPIC.
YOU ALREADY INTRODUCED IT TO
GASPIN AUDIENCE.
YEAH, YOU SAID THAT WE'RE
GETTING ALL THESE LEGAL
THREADS.
I'VE BEEN CAREFULLY READING THE
CORRESPONDENCE, THE COMMISSION
AND I'VE ONLY SEEN ONE THREAT
FROM THE LAW FIRM OF MCLELAND
AND ANDERSEN FOR THE HOME
BUILDERS ASSOCIATION
OF MICHIGAN OR MA'AM, MAYBE
THERE HAVE BEEN OTHERS BUT I'VE
MISSED THEM THIS SAME LAW FIRM
AND PAM ARE ALSO THREATENING
THE STATE LEGALLY OVER NEW
ENERGY EFFICIENCY STANDARDS IN
THE STATE ENERGY CODE WHICH IS
UNDER REVISION.
BAN IS A VERY BACKWARDS LOOKING
ORGANIZATION WHICH LOCAL
BUILDERS BROKE AWAY FROM MANY
YEARS AGO TO FORM OUR OWN
GROUP.
I KNOW YOU CAN'T ENTIRELY
IGNORE LEGAL THREATS BUT HEY
CONSIDER THE SOURCE HERE HPN
I'VE BEEN MEETING WITH
DEVELOPERS ON THIS ISSUE AND
WHAT IS MOST STRUCK ME IS
FRANKLY THE COMPLETE ABSENCE
OF ANY SENSE OF SHARED
RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE CLIMATE
CRISIS INSTEAD OF JOINING OUR
COLLECTIVE EFFORT THEY SAY IT'S
NOT THEIR PROBLEM OR IMPLY THAT
I KNOW THEY HAVE THEIR PRO
FORMAS BUT MOST DON'T EVEN
PRETEND TO CARE.
SO WE REALLY NEED THIS
ORDINANCE.
WE'RE NOT GOING TO GET
VOLUNTARY COMPLIANCE EXCEPT A
HUGE COST TO THE PUBLIC PURSE.
PERHAPS WE CAN WORK ON THE
INCENTIVE STRUCTURE IS TO GIVE
RANDALL JUST MENTIONED BUT I'M
NOT OPTIMISTIC.
I MEAN DID WE REALLY THINK THAT
WE COULD DO THIS WITHOUT
UPSETTING PEOPLE INVESTED IN
THE STATUS QUO?
IT DOESN'T WORK THAT WAY.
THE EIGHT ZERO PLAN THREE YEARS
IN UNRAVELING BECAUSE IT'S
COMING UP AGAINST POWERFUL
FORCES THAT ARE VIOLENTLY
RESISTANT TO REAL CHANGE THAT
INCLUDES THE CONSTRUCTION
INDUSTRY AND MANY DEVELOPERS
NOT ALL.
BUT THE ANSWER IS NOT TO BACK
DOWN OVER 90 CITIES AND
COUNTIES HAVE NOW RESTRICTED
GAS AND NEW CONSTRUCTION.
THERE HAVE BEEN A FEW LAWSUITS
BUT THOSE CITIES ARE HOLDING
FIRM IN YOUR POCKET.
YOU'LL FIND PETITIONS ONE
HUNDRED TWENTY FIVE SIGNATURES
IN SUPPORT OF A GAS BAN
ORDINANCE FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION
.
I ASK YOU TO STAND WITH
EVERYONE WHO SIGNED THIS
PETITION AND ALL THE OTHERS WHO
WOULD HAVE AND AGAINST THOSE
WHO SEEK TO CONTINUE THE
INSANITY OF LOCKING IN NEW
FOSSIL FUEL INFRASTRUCTURE FOR
DECADES TO COME.
THERE ARE THERE ARE THOSE WHO
OPPOSE THE GAS BAN ON THE
ASSUMPTION THAT DEVELOPERS WILL
FLEE THE CITY FOR TOWNSHIPS,
WORSENING SPRAWL, LOWERING
DENSITY.
I DON'T THINK THAT'S GOING TO
HAPPEN.
OK, BUT LET'S SAY IT DOES THIS
IS LIKE SAYING GEE, THESE
COMPANIES WANT TO DISCHARGE RAW
SEWAGE INTO OUR RIVER BUT IF WE
BAN THAT THEY'LL JUST GO ACROSS
THE BORDER WHERE SEWAGE ISN'T
REGULATED AND WILL MISS OUT ON
ALL THE BENEFITS THESE
COMPANIES BRING.
SO FORGET THE RAW SEWAGE BAN.
THIS IS NOT HOW CHANGE HAPPENS.
THIS IS HOW YOU PERPETUATE THE
STATUS QUO.
CHANGE HAPPENS WHEN YOU TAKE A
STAND AGAINST THE HARMFUL
ACTIVITY.
THANK YOU OR ANYBODY ELSE
PRESENT WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK
FOR THREE MINUTES
.
OK, WE WILL MOVE ON TO ITEM
NUMBER SEVEN WHICH IS PUBLIC
HEARINGS FOR THE NEXT BUSINESS
MEETING OR I'M SORRY WE NEVER
EVEN WENT TO THE VIRTUAL THING.
YES, WE GOT TO GO TO THE
VIRTUAL THING SORRY BUT
CURRENTLY NO HANDS RAISED, NO
SEE I KNEW THAT THAT'S WHAT
COULD JUST SENSE IT ANYWAY.
SO ON TO PUBLIC HEARINGS FOR
THE NEXT BUSINESS MEETING
WE
HAVE ONE A NEW PUBLIC HEARING
SCHEDULED FOR THE APRIL 18TH
MEETING.
IT'S A PROPOSED UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE MODIFICATION.
THIS IS A PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
TO PERMITTED AND ACCESSORY
USERS IN THE T SEE ONE TRANSIT
CORRIDOR DISTRICT.
I PROPOSE AMENDMENT TO CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE SECTION FIVE FIFTEEN
TABLE FIVE FIFTEEN PRIMARY USE
TABLE AND THE ACCESSORIES TABLE
AND USE SPECIFIC STANDARDS TO
ALLOW SOME AUTOMOBILE RELATED
USES IN THE TAXI ONE ZONING
DISTRICT AND SOME TAXI ONE
BUILDING MODIFICATIONS.
ALL RIGHT THANK YOU SO WE ARE
THEN MOVING ON TO OUR REGULAR
BUSINESS WHICH IS ITEM NUMBER
NINE NINE A. SO THIS IS FOR THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN CREDIT
UNION SITE PLAN AND SPECIAL
EXEMPTION USED FOR CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL.
THIS IS A PROPOSAL TO BUILD A
NEW FOUR THOUSAND SEVEN HUNDRED
FORTY SQUARE BUILDING WITH
THREE DRIVE THRU LANES AND
TWENTY TWO PARKING SPACES ON
ONE ACRE SITE LOCATED AT TWO
NINE TWO NINE PLYMOUTH ROAD.
THE PARCEL IS ZONED FOR OFFICE
A SPECIAL EXEMPTION USE IS
REQUESTED FOR THE THREE DRIVE
THROUGH TELLER LANES.
THE STAFF RECOMMENDATION IS
APPROVAL AND WE'RE GOING TO
START WITH THE PETITIONER
PRESENTATION FOR TEN MINUTES
EVENING COMMISSIONERS.
MY NAME IS TED HIRSCH.
I'M WITH MIDWESTERN CONSULTING
.
WE ARE THE CIVIL CONSULTANT FOR
THIS PROJECT.
I'M HERE WITH MEMBERS FROM THE
PARTNERSHIP UNIVERSITY MISSION
MICHIGAN CREDIT UNION THE THE
PROJECT ARCHITECT HOBBS AND
BLACK AND THE GENERAL
CONTRACTOR JASPER
.
>> SO I LIKE EVERYONE THERE.
MOST PEOPLE ARE KIND OF AWARE
THE PROJECT IS JUST TO GIVE
SOME CONTEXT HERE WEST TO US
TWENTY THREE AND PLYMOUTH ROAD
JUST EAST OF HERE ON PARKWAY
AND JUST A LITTLE MORE GRANULAR
SEE THAT I'M CITY TESTING
FACILITIES TO THE SOUTHEAST.
WE HAVE PRAIRIE STREET ON OUR
EAST OF THE SITE.
THERE'S AN ELEMENTARY TO THE
NORTH PROVIDING A LITTLE MORE
CONTEXT HERE FROM A ZONING AND
FUTURE LAND USE PERSPECTIVE
JUST HIGHLIGHTING THE THE
EXISTING ZONING MAP SHOWING
THAT WE'RE ZONED ALL OFFICE AND
THE FUTURE LAND USE ELEMENT
OF THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN BEING
CONSISTENT AND SHOWING THAT HIS
OFFICE AS WELL
.
>> JUST TO GIVE A LITTLE
BACKGROUND ON THE THE
CHARACTERISTICS OF THE PROJECT.
SO UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
CREDIT UNION DOES HAVE SPACE IN
THE TRAVERS VILLAGE CENTER A
LITTLE BIT WEST OF THIS PROJECT
SITE.
SO PART OF WHAT THIS PROJECT
ACCOMPLISHES FOR THE OWNER IS
IT ALLOWS THEM TO TO MOVE INTO
A LARGER SPACE THAN WHAT THEY
HAVE IN THIS RENTED SPACE OR AT
LEAST SPACE.
THE EXPANSION OF THE BUILDING
IN THE AREA GIVES THINGS LIKE A
CONFERENCE ROOM, THINGS THAT
THEY CAN USE TO BETTER SERVE
THEIR THEIR MEMBERS PROVIDE
STUFF LIKE FINANCIAL EDUCATION
,MORTGAGE FACILITATION.
THE SITE PLAN DOES INCLUDE
DRIVE THROUGH SOMETHING THAT IS
THEN BASICALLY REQUESTED AND BY
THEIR MEMBERS AND SOMETHING
THAT THEY FELT IS AN IMPORTANT
FACET OF THE PROJECT TO INCLUDE
AGAIN THIS THIS SITE IN THE
EXPANSION OF THE THE THE
BUILDING AREA GIVES THEM BETTER
OPPORTUNITY TO SERVE THEIR
MEMBERS.
PURCHASING THE PROPERTY ALLOWS
THEM AN OWNERSHIP THE LAND
RATHER THAN A LEASE SITUATION
THAT THEY CURRENTLY HAVE AND
THEN JUST KIND HIGHLIGHTING THE
FACT THAT THERE'S NO REZONING,
NO VARIANCES REQUESTED OR
REQUIRED FOR THE FOR THE
PROJECT AS PROPOSED.
IT DOES INCLUDE A LAND DIVISION
.
SO BASED ON THE EVALUATION
OF THEIR NEEDS AND THE CHOSEN
LOCATION DOES PROVIDE MORE SITE
AREA THAN WHAT THEY NEED TO
ACCOMPLISH THEIR GOALS.
SO THE LAND DIVISION PROVIDES
AN OPPORTUNITY TO TO ALLOW THEM
TO ACCOMPLISH THAT AND THEN
PROVIDE POTENTIAL AREA FOR
FUTURE DEVELOPMENT.
THERE IS LANDSCAPE MODIFICATION
INCLUDED WITH THE PROJECT BASED
ON THE STREET TREE PLACEMENT
ALONG PLIMOTH.
IT'S KIND OF AN EXISTING
CONDITION IN WHERE EXISTING
STREET TREES ALONG THAT STRETCH
ARE LOCATED OUTSIDE OF THE
RIGHT OF WAY AND A FEW OF THOSE
MANY OF THOSE ARE LANDMARK
TREES THAT WE'RE INTENDING TO
MAINTAIN AND AGAIN JUST KIND
OF MAINTAIN THAT EXISTING
CONDITION AND STAFF HAS
RECOMMENDED APPROVAL OF THAT
MODIFICATION.
SO AND OBVIOUSLY AS MENTIONED
BEFORE, THE DRIVE THRU THAT'S
INCLUDED WITH THE THE SITE PLAN
WOULD REQUIRE YOUR APPROVAL
OF A SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE
MOVING ON TO THE SITE LAYOUT SO
YOU CAN SEE THAT THERE IS KIND
OF THE MODEST BUILDING AND
PARKING FIELDS AND DRIVE LANES
THE DRIVE THRU LOCATED BEHIND
THE BUILDING KIND OF TUCKED
AWAY AND THEN THE SECOND PARCEL
LEFT IT'LL BE CLEARED OF ALL
THE EXISTING BUILDING AND
PARKING AREA AND THEN LEFT JUST
IN A VEGETATED SITUATION.
SO THERE IS ACCESS FROM BOTH
PLYMOUTH ROAD AND PRAIRIE
STREET CURRENTLY THE PRAIRIE
STREET APPROACH FOR THE
EXISTING SITE THAT'S TO REMAIN
IN THAT AND ITS EXISTING PLACE
THE THE APPROACH PLYMOUTH THE
EXISTING APPROACH IS A LITTLE
BIT FURTHER WEST AND THAT'LL BE
HIGHLIGHTED A LITTLE BIT
EARLIER THAT THAT'S GETTING
MOVED A LITTLE BIT FURTHER EAST
AGAIN WITH THE INTENT TO ALLOW
FOR FUTURE DEVELOPMENT OF THAT
RESULTING SPLIT PARCEL AND IN
THIS KIND OF CENTRAL DRIVE
FAILED TO ACT IS SHARED ACCESS,
INGRESS, EGRESS THE THE
PROPOSED LAYOUT DOES MOVE THIS
NEW BUILDING CLOSER TO THE ROAD
THAN THE EXISTING BUILDING KIND
OF CREATES A LITTLE BIT MORE
OF THAT PEDESTRIAN SCALE LAYOUT
.
THE IT ALSO INCREASES THE SET
BACK FROM THE RESIDENTIAL TO
THE NORTH.
THERE'S TWENTY TWO PROPOSED
PARKING SPACES WHICH IS THE I
SHOULD SAY WAS THE MINIMUM
REQUIRED AT THE TIME THAT THIS
WAS SUBMITTED THERE WAS A
MINIMUM OF TWENTY TWO SPACES
AND A MAXIMUM OF TWENTY EIGHT
SO THEY FELT THAT OWNERSHIP
FELT THAT THE TWENTY TWO WAS
SOMETHING THAT THEY COULD
CERTAINLY INITIALLY MOVE
FORWARD WITH AND ADEQUATELY
SERVE THE SITE THERE ARE FOR
DEFERRED PARKING SPACES AT THE
NORTHWEST I'M SORRY THE
NORTHEAST CORNER THAT ARE
INCLUDED.
THE PROJECT INCLUDES SIX
PROPOSED ELECTRIC VEHICLE
INSTALLED PARKING SPACES FOR
THE REQUIREMENTS AT THE TIME
THAT IS MORE THAN DOUBLE THE
THE REQUIRED I BELIEVE IT WAS
TWO THAT WERE REQUIRED FOR
PARKING SPACES ARE INCLUDED
AGAIN JUST SLIGHTLY OVER TO THE
REQUIRED MINIMUM AND THEN FROM
A KIND OF MULTIMODAL
PERSPECTIVE THERE ARE
ADDITIONAL BY GROUPS LIKE
PARKING SPACES THAT ARE
MINIMALLY REQUIRED FOR THE
DEVELOPMENT.
>> SO AS I MENTIONED BEFORE THE
THE EXISTING CURB CUT ON
PLYMOUTH THAT APPROACH WOULD BE
REMOVED AND ESSENTIALLY
RELOCATED TOWARDS THE CENTER
THE THE ENTIRE PARCEL AND THEN
WITH THAT SPLIT IT WOULD WOULD
LIE ALONG THE EASTERN EDGE
OF THIS RESULTING SECOND PARCEL
AGAIN THE EXISTING CUT ON
PRAIRIE TO REMAIN THERE IS AN
EXISTING BUS STOP THAT WOULD
HAVE TO BE SHIFTED JUST A
LITTLE BIT I THINK THIRTY FEET
TO THE EAST.
SEVENTY FIVE TO THE EAST.
THIRTY FEET EAST OF THE NEW
APPROACH TO ACCOMMODATE THAT
RELOCATION AND THAT'S BEEN
SOMETHING THAT WAS COORDINATED
WITH THE THE TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORITY AND THE PROVIDED
DIRECTION ON THAT LOCATION FROM
UTILITIES PERSPECTIVE PRETTY
SIMPLE.
THERE'S ADEQUATE EXISTING
INFRASTRUCTURE FROM WATER AND
SANITARY AS WELL AS STORM
PERSPECTIVE.
THE SLIDE HIGHLIGHTS THE WATER
AND SANITARY SO OUT IN PRAIRIE
STREET THERE'S BOTH AVAILABLE
WATER AND SANITARY MAINS.
THE WATER BEING 12 INCH IS
ADEQUATE SIZE.
NO NO NEED FOR UPSIZING THERE
WOULD BE A RELOCATION OF THE
THE THE TAPS FOR THE LEADS.
SO NEW LEADS WOULD BE
ACCOMMODATED ON THAT MAIN AND
THAT WOULD BE THE SAME FOR THE
SANITARY SERVICE AS WELL.
WE'D MAKE A NEW TAB FOR THAT.
CURRENTLY THE EXISTING SITE
DOESN'T HAVE ANY DETENTION
FACILITIES OR REALLY ANY
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT QUALITY
OR ANY OTHER FACILITIES OTHER
THAN CONVEYANCE.
THERE'S SOME CATCH BASINS ON
SITE.
IT'S ALL PARKING AND BUILDING
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE THAT DRAINS
INTO THE CATCH BASINS AND THEN
DIRECTLY UP TO THE CITY STORM
SEWER AND PRAIRIE STREET.
SO THE PROJECT THE PROJECT
PROVIDES UNDERGROUND DETENTION
HERE IN THE NORTH END SOME NEW
STORM SEWER TO CAPTURE AS MUCH
OF THE SITE RUNOFF AS POSSIBLE
.
THERE'S NO INFILTRATION
OPPORTUNITY.
SO THE THE VOLUME PROVIDED IS
ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY PERCENT
OF THE 100 STORM VOLUME IN
ADDITION TO ALL OF THAT,
ALTHOUGH THERE'S NO
INFILTRATION, THERE IS A
PROPOSED RAIN GARDEN KIND OF IN
THE CENTER OF THIS DRIVE
THROUGH LOOP IN WHICH THE THAT
MY TIME IF YOU JUST WANT TO
WRAP IT UP, WRAP IT UP REAL
QUICK.
SO I'VE GOT THE BUILDING HERE
JUST A COUPLE OF DIFFERENT
VIEWS HIGHLIGHTING A COUPLE
OF THINGS HERE.
THE UP BTM THAT WE DO HAVE I
THINK THAT WAS SOMETHING THAT
WAS MAYBE NOT AS WELL
PRONOUNCED ON THE SITE PLANS
JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE THAT
THAT WAS IDENTIFIED THE DRIVE
THROUGH WE HAD KIND
OF DISCUSSED WITH PLANNING
STAFF THAT THE OWNER IS WILLING
TO ACCOMMODATE ARE OPEN TO
ACCOMMODATING WHATEVER IT KIND
OF MEANS TO TO PROVIDE BICYCLE
ACCESS THROUGH THAT DRIVE
THROUGH WHETHER IT'S SIGNAGE OR
WHAT OTHER SPECIAL
ACCOMMODATIONS THERE MIGHT NEED
TO BE.
>> IT DOES HAVE ENERGY
EFFICIENT SUSTAINABLE BUILDING
MATERIALS PROBABLY DURING
DISCUSSION THE PROJECT OUR
ARCHITECT FROM HOBBS AND BLACK
CAN SPEAK A LITTLE BIT MORE
OF THAT SO I CAN WRAP THIS UP.
SO OBVIOUSLY OUR GOALS FOR THE
MEETING ARE TO TO REVIEW THE
DETAILS OF THE PROJECT, DISCUSS
WITH PLANNING COMMISSION,
ADDRESS ANY QUESTIONS, CONCERNS
,COMMENTS AND I KNOW THERE'S
BEEN SIGNIFICANT COMMUNICATION
FROM RESIDENTS THAT I'M SURE
YOU WERE AWARE OF .
SO TO ADDRESS YOUR QUESTIONS AS
WELL AS THERE'S AND AND THEN
GET ACTIONS
ON THE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION, USE THE SITE PLAN
APPROVAL IN THE LANDSCAPE
MODIFICATION.
THAT'S THE LONG AND SHORT
OF OUR GOALS FOR THE MEETING.
THANK YOU.
MR. CHANG.
ANYTHING TO ADD SHARE DID AN
EXCELLENT JOB OF GIVING A
PRETTY GOOD OVERVIEW OF THE
SITE.
JUST A COUPLE OF THINGS JUST TO
HIGHLIGHT THERE IS A WALK UP
ATM MACHINE ALSO AS PART
OF THIS PROPOSAL THE NORTHWEST
CORNER THERE'S ALSO CONFLICTING
LAND USE BUFFER.
IT'S THIRTY FEET WIDE.
THE REQUIRED MINIMUM IS FIFTEEN
FEET WIDE WHICH WILL SCREAM
FROM THE RESIDENCE TO THE
NORTH.
OTHERWISE I'M AVAILABLE FOR ANY
QUESTIONS YOU MAY HAVE.
>> THANK YOU.
OK, WE ARE GOING TO OPEN THE
PUBLIC HEARING SO THIS IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR PEOPLE TO SPEAK
UP TO THREE MINUTES.
WE'LL CALL ON INDIVIDUALS FIRST
WHO ARE PRESENT AND THEN WE'LL
MOVE VIRTUALLY TO SPEAK
REMOTELY PRESTER NINE
OF LISTENING BY PHONE I USED TO
RAISE THE HAND FEATURE THROUGH
THE WEBLINK FOR PHONE ACCESS
CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
AND ENTER MEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TO SIX TO UNMUTED PRESS
STAR SIX CITY STAFF WILL SELECT
CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED THEIR
HAND OR BY NAME IF ACCESSING
THE WEBLINK YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
WHEN SPEAKING.
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA.
IS THERE ANYBODY PRESENT WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK ON THIS
PROJECT?
DO YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES TO
ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION?
>> PLEASE PLEASE STATE YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS FIRST.
HI, THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS DUFFNER BASIC.
I'M A WARD TO RESIDENT
OF ORCHARD HILLS AT TWENTY ONE
42 YORKETOWN DRIVE.
I WANT TO VOICE MY OPPOSITION
TO THESE PROPOSALS AT THE
RESIDENT OF ORCHARD HILLS.
I BELIEVE THAT THIS PROJECT
MAKES LITTLE SENSE.
FIRST, UMC ALREADY HAS A
SUITABLE LOCATION OVER ON THEIR
EXISTING BUILDING IN PLYMOUTH
ROAD DEMOLISHING A BUILDING
THAT IS IN GOOD AND USABLE
CONDITION IS WASTEFUL AND
SHORTSIGHTED.
SECOND, THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION
USE OF ADDING DRIVE THRU LANES
IS NOT CONDUCIVE TO EIGHT EIGHT
ZERO CLIMATE FRIENDLY VISION AS
THIS WILL ENCOURAGE MORE
DRIVING AND INCREASE IDLING
EMISSIONS RIGHT NEXT TO OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD POOL DOLPHIN POOL
.
SPEAKING OF THE POOL, THIS
SITUATION COULD ALSO CREATE A
POTENTIALLY UNSAFE ENVIRONMENT
WHERE UNSCRUPULOUS INDIVIDUALS
MAY MAY BE LINGERING WITHIN A
FEW DOZEN FEET OF YOUNG
CHILDREN AT PLAY.
MOREOVER, THIS LAND COULD BE
BETTER UTILIZED WITH MIXED
RETAIL OR GENTLE DENSITY
HOUSING.
I WOULD APPRECIATE IT IF WE
COULD PUT A STOP TO THIS
PROPOSAL AND ELIMINATE UMTS
WASTEFUL PLANS TO EXPAND A BANK
THAT IS SIMPLY NOT NEEDED ALSO
TO NOTE I AM A UMC YOU MEMBER.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
ANYBODY ELSE PRESENT WHO WOULD
LIKE TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION ON THIS PROJECT
?
THANK YOU.
YOUR RANDALL KENT GARBER AGAIN
I DON'T LIVE IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD SO I DON'T HAVE I
HAVE A DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVE.
I LOOK AT THIS AND I SAY
ANOTHER NEW GAS BURNING
BUILDING.
I MEAN REALLY WE CAN'T
ELECTRIFY A SINGLE STORY.
FORTY EIGHT HUNDRED SQUARE FOOT
BANK BRANCH THAT SITS ON ONE
POINT SEVENTY THREE ACRES.
I KNOW WE'RE SPLITTING THIS
INTO TWO PARCELS BUT WHEN I PUT
IN A GEOTHERMAL FIELD NOW
ACROSS BOTH TO SERVE THIS
BUILDING AND MAYBE A FUTURE ONE
I HAD THE CONTRACTOR SJS BIG.
I KNOW THEY HAVE EXPERIENCE
WITH GEOTHERMAL WELLS.
I'D LOVE TO HEAR THEIR
EXPLANATION ABOUT WHY THEY
CAN'T DO THIS AS INDICATED IN
THE STAFF REPORT.
MAYBE WE'LL HEAR THAT.
I HOPE WE DON'T HEAR THE
THERMAL THERMAL DEGRADATION
ARGUMENT THAT CIRCULATING COLD
WATER THROUGH THE GROUND WILL
FREEZE OVER TIME THAT'S BEEN
DISPROVEN EVEN IN COLDER
CLIMATES THAN OURS AS LONG AS
YOU'RE ALSO RUNNING HOT WATER
FROM AIR CONDITIONING DURING
THE SUMMER AS ALWAYS I
CALCULATED THE GREENHOUSE GAS
IMPACT NATURAL COMBUSTION MUST
GO THROUGH THE BORING FIGURES
YOU CAN ASK ME LATER COMES TO
FORTY FOUR METRIC TON CO2
EQUIVALENT EMISSIONS A YEAR A
COUPLE OF SOLAR PANELS AND RAIN
AREN'T DOING NOTHING TO REDUCE
THIS AND I'M NOT COUNTING
NECESSARY EMISSIONS FROM
VEHICLES IDLING IN THE DRIVE
THRU LANES.
OTHER CITIES ARE BANNING DRIVE
THRU USE ALTOGETHER IN TWENTY
NINETEEN THE MINNEAPOLIS CITY
COUNCIL PASSED AN ORDINANCE
BANNING ALL NEW DRIVE THRU
INCLUDING FAIRBANKS BECAUSE
THEY INCREASED GREENHOUSE GAS
EMISSIONS AND AIR POLLUTION.
THE PETITIONERS FRAMING OF THIS
DRIVE THROUGH AS A PUBLIC
HEALTH MEASURE IS JUST SILLY.
>> SO WE ALREADY HEARD FROM ONE
CREDIT UNION MEMBER.
I ALSO AM A MEMBER.
I WANT TO REMIND ANYONE WHO MAY
BE LISTENING THAT DESPITE THE
CREDIT UNIONS NAME IT'S NOT
OWNED BY THE UNIVERSITY.
RATHER IT'S A MEMBER OWNED
COOPERATIVE.
I'M A MEMBER AND SO IN THIS
GENTLEMAN AND OF COURSE MANY
OTHERS WE ALL OWN THE CREDIT
UNION NOT THE YOU AND NOT THE
EXECUTIVES WHO CAME UP WITH
THIS PLAN.
ACCORDING TO THE CREDIT UNIONS
DECEMBER TWENTY TWO TO CALL
REPORT THE UMC HAS NO DEPOSITS
TOTALING ONE POINT ONE FIVE
BILLION DOLLARS REPRESENTING
EIGHTY FIVE PERCENT OF TOTAL
LIABILITIES.
THAT'S OUR MONEY.
SO IF YOU'RE LISTENING AND YOU
REMEMBER JOIN ME AT THE CREDIT
UNIONS ANNUAL MEETING ON APRIL
TWENTY FIFTH THREE WEEKS FROM
TODAY TO PROTEST THIS PLAN ANY
MEMBER CAN ATTEND.
THE MEETING TAKES PLACE AT THE
JACKSON BRANCH AND STARTS AT
FIVE P.M. HOPE TO SEE YOU THERE
.
THANK YOU.
ANYBODY PRESENT WHO WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK ON THIS PROJECT?
>> DO WE HAVE FOLKS IN LINE
VIRTUALLY WE DO.
THERE ARE CURRENTLY SEVEN HAND
RAISED AND OUR FIRST CALLER IS
HERNAN ROCHA.
>> YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO SPEAK
.
HELLO.
MY NAME IS HENRY ROCHA.
I AM ONE OF THE NEIGHBORS THAT
WHOSE PROPERTY IS DIVIDED BY
OF THINGS FROM THE PROPOSED
PROJECT.
I WOULD LIKE TO RAISE THE
CONCERN BESIDES SEVERAL OF THE
CONCERNS THAT WERE ALREADY
STATED.
I WOULD LIKE TO RAISE A CONCERN
BECAUSE I DIDN'T HEAR AND
APPARENTLY HEARD THAT THEY ARE
THEY ARE PROJECTED CHARGING
STATIONS ELECTRIC CHARGING
STATIONS FOR CARS BESIDES THE
DRIVE THRU WHICH I ACTUALLY
OPPOSED TO AND THAT WOULD
CREATE A SIGNIFICANTLY HIGHER
AND TRAFFIC IN THAT AREA.
AND ACTUALLY I DIDN'T HEAR THE
PROPOSAL AND CONSIDERS TO IN
CASE IT GETS APPROVED WHICH I
MEAN I DON'T KNOW WHAT WOULD BE
THE FINAL THE FINAL APPROVAL.
I DIDN'T HEAR ANYTHING ABOUT
BUILDING A PRIVACY THINGS THAT
SEPARATE THE HOUSES THAT GOES
NEXT TO THE TO THE TO THE
PROJECT BUILDING BECAUSE AS YOU
CAN SEE THESE CARS WILL COME
WITH LIES WITH THEM WITH NOISE
WITH EVERYTHING I THINK AND IT
DOESN'T HAVE TIME IT COULD BE
IN THE MIDDLE OF THE DAY.
IT COULD BE IN THE MIDDLE
OF THE NIGHT.
SO I WOULD CREATE A HUGE
DISTURBANCE FOR THE NEIGHBORS
THAT LIVE YOURS.
I MEAN THAT THAT GOES NEXT TO
THE PROPERTY AND I ALSO OPPOSE
THIS INCREASE OF DRIVING
BECAUSE OF THE OF THE ALREADY
STATED THINGS RELATED TO THE
POOL THAT IS NEAR THE LEASED
PROPERTY WHICH IS A PUBLIC POOL
FOR THE NEIGHBORHOOD WHICH A
LOT OF TRAFFIC FROM CHILDREN
AND EVERYTHING ELSE.
SO ACTUALLY IS A DANGER IN MY
VIEW AND SO IN CASE THESE ARE
APPROVED FINALLY I STILL THINK
IS IMPORTANT THAT THE BUILDERS
CONSIDER A LEASE A PRIVACY
FENCE.
THEY ARE TALL ENOUGH AND
COMPACT ENOUGH TO REDUCE THE
DISTURBANCE TO THE PRIVATE
NEIGHBORHOOD HOUSES THERE.
THAT'S
OUR NEXT CALLER IS ADAM
YESHIVISH.
>> YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO SPEAK
.
HI, THIS IS ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ.
FOURTEEN THIRTY LAS VEGAS
DRIVE.
I SPOKE TO YOU SOME TIME AGO
ABOUT A DRIVE THRU BANK AND THE
WEST STADIUM CORRIDOR AT THE
FORMER CAR DEALERSHIP LOT.
I URGED YOU NOT TO ALLOW A
DRIVE THRU BANK AT THAT
LOCATION.
FORTUNATELY YOU DID NOT.
HOWEVER, A FEW YEARS GO
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVED A
DRIVE THROUGH FOR ANOTHER BANK
ACROSS THE STREET AND THE OLD
CAR WASH LOT DEVELOPMENT HAS
NOW STARTED ON THAT BANK SO IT
APPEARS THE FIRST NEW
DEVELOPMENT SINCE ZONING THE
WEST STADIUM CORRIDOR SEE ONE
IS GOING TO BE A DRIVE THRU
BANK.
LOVELY IF WE ARE SERIOUS ABOUT
OUR GOALS AS A CITY WE NEED TO
DO BETTER.
WE ARE IN A CLIMATE CRISIS.
WE HAVE PLEDGED VEHICLE MILES
TRAVELED IN HALF.
WE ARE IN A TRAFFIC VIOLENCE
CRISIS.
WE HAVE PLEDGED TO ELIMINATE
KSEE CRASH'S A ZERO VISION
ZERO.
WE WON'T GET THERE IF WE KEEP
BUILDING CAR CENTRIC
DEVELOPMENTS.
WE WON'T GET THERE IF WE DON'T
GET SERIOUS ABOUT TRANSFORMING
OUR ROADS INTO LIVABLE SPACES
USABLE BY PEOPLE WITH ALL MODES
OF TRANSPORTATION NOT FOR
ANOTHER DRIVE THRU BANK DOES
NOT GET US THERE.
WE ARE ALSO IN A HOUSING CRISIS
.
THERE'S GOT TO BE A BETTER USE
OF THIS LAND THAN YET ANOTHER
DRIVE THRU BANK.
YOU HAVE THE DISCRETION TO
DECIDE WHETHER OR NOT TO ALLOW
DRIVE THROUGH AT LEAST DENIED A
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE FOR THIS
DRIVE THRU BANK.
THANK YOU
.
>> OUR NEXT CALLER IS
ERIC THE
CAR.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO SPEAK.
>> HI THIS IS ERIC ZAKHAROV
FROM TWO FOUR THREE FIVE
PRARIE.
I'M ADJACENT TO THIS PROJECT ON
PRAIRIE STREET.
>> I'M ALSO CALLING TO OPPOSE
THE SIU FOR THE THREE LANE
DRIVE THROUGH HERE AS THE LAST
CALLER SAID, WE'RE IN A CLIMATE
CRISIS.
>> WE ARE IN A HOUSING CRISIS.
WE ARE NOT ON THIS SIDE OF TOWN
IN A DRIVE THRU BANK CRISIS WE
HAVE SEVEN WITHIN A ONE MILE
STRETCH.
SOME OF THEM ARE VACANT THAT
YOU SEE YOU COULD HAVE
REPURPOSED BUT INSTEAD ARE
CHOOSING TO BUILD THIS ONE ON A
NEIGHBORHOOD STREET AT THE
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT SESSION
HELD PREVIOUSLY UNSEEN.
WE DID NOT SEND A
REPRESENTATIVE JUST A
REPRESENTATIVE FROM THE FIRM
THAT'S BUILDING SO THEY WERE
UNABLE TO ANSWER OUR QUESTIONS
AS A COMMUNITY CONTRARY TO WHAT
THE STAFF REPORT STATES, THE
DRIVE THRU MEETS NONE OF THE
REQUIREMENT OF AN SEIU WHICH
I'LL GO THROUGH POINT BY POINT
FIRST IT SAYS WILL IT BE
CONSISTENT WITH GENERAL
OBJECTIVES OF THE CITY MASTER
PLAN?
THE ANSWER IS NO.
A NEW DRIVE THRU RUNS COUNTER
TO OUR STATED MISSIONS A TWO
ZERO VISION, ZERO GOALS AT
NUMBER TWO WILL BE COMPATIBLE
WITH THE EXISTING AND PLAYING
CHARACTER OF THE VICINITY.
NO, THERE'S NO OTHER BANK HERE
WITH A DRIVE THRU WHICH EXITS
ONTO A NEIGHBORHOOD STREET
ESPECIALLY ONE WITH AN
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL AND A
NEIGHBORHOOD POOL WITHIN SIGHT
.
>> NUMBER THREE, WILL IT BE
CONSISTENT WITH THE CHARACTER
OF ACTIVITIES?
NO.
PRAIRIE IS A RESIDENTIAL
STREET.
PEOPLE WALK AND BIKE THROUGH
THIS AREA AND WALK TO THE POOL
THERE WE DO NOT NEED TO
ENCOURAGE MORE AUTO USE ON
PRAIRIE STREET FOR WILL IT BE
DETRIMENTAL TO THE PEACEFUL
ENJOYMENT OF A NEIGHBORING
PROPERTY?
THIS IS A PRETTY OBVIOUS YES
ALL THE NEIGHBORHOOD ALL THE
NEIGHBORS ARE SPEAKING WITH ONE
VOICE AND TELLING YOU THAT IT
IS ODDLY THE STAFF REPORT
MENTIONS THAT THE DRIVE THRU IS
BEHIND PLYMOUTH ROAD FROM THE
BANK SO IT'S NOT VISIBLE FROM
PLYMOUTH AND WON'T DETRACT FROM
PEACEFUL ENJOYMENT BUT IT'S
PRETTY VISIBLE FROM PRAIRIE AND
PRETTY VISIBLE FROM FOLKS
BACKYARDS SO I'M NOT SURE WHY
THAT WAS IGNORED BUT THE SIGHT
LINES ALONG PLYMOUTH WERE
PRIORITIZED IN THE STAFF REPORT
AND FIVE WOULD BE DETRIMENTAL
TO THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT.
>> WELL IT ENCOURAGES DRIVING
IDLING CAR USE INSTEAD OF THE
CURRENT BANK WHERE PEOPLE USE
IT AS A WALKABLE BANK.
IT'S CLOSER SITUATED TO THE
NORTH CAMPUS.
>> A LOT OF STUDENTS USE IT AND
ALSO THIS SITE WAS REQUIRING
THE REMOVAL OF TWO LANDMARK
TREES.
>> SO YES, IT IS DETRIMENTAL.
>> THIS AREA IS ALREADY A PRIME
EXAMPLE OF A FIFTEEN MINUTE
NEIGHBORHOOD EXISTING UMC YOU
BRANCH DOWN THE ROAD IS A GOOD
PART OF THAT.
ADDING A DRIVE THRU BANK
CREATES MORE PROBLEMS THAN IT
SOLVES AND WE'D BE BETTER OFF
WITH NONE OF THE CURRENT DRIVE
THRU HERE.
>> BUT IF THERE ARE TO BE DRIVE
THRU UMC YOU COULD JUST
REPURPOSE ONE THE VACANT ONES
NEXT DOOR.
>> THANK YOU
.
OUR NEXT CALLER IS JACOB
KATZMANN.
YOU'VE PERMISSION TO SPEAK.
>> HELLO MY NAME IS JACOB
KITTSON.
MY WIFE AND I LIVE AT TWO EIGHT
FIVE ONE RENFREW STREET IN THE
SAME NEIGHBORHOOD AS THIS
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT.
MY SON ATTENDS THURSTON
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL AND WE
FREQUENTLY WALK AND BIKE AROUND
THE NEIGHBORHOOD INCLUDING TO
THE POOL THAT'S ABOUT A FEW
HUNDRED FEET A FEW HUNDRED FEET
OF THIS BUILDING.
WE STRONGLY OPPOSE THIS
DEVELOPMENT.
IT OFFERS NO POTENTIAL BENEFIT
TO THE NEIGHBORHOOD AS IT
STANDS, YOU CAN'T SWING A CAT
WITHOUT HITTING A BANK HERE
WE'VE GOT THE EXISTING CREDIT
UNION BRANCH, PNC BANK, THE
HUNTINGTON BANK, THE BANK, THE
BANK OF ANN ARBOR, COMERICA
BANK, FLAGSTAD HANSE BANK AND
CHASE BANK AND POSSIBLY MORE
THAT I'VE MISSED WITHIN A MILE
STRETCH WE DO NOT WANT AND WE
DO NOT NEED ANY MORE RETAIL
BANKING LOCATIONS.
THE CONSULTANT SPOKE OF THE
SITE LAYOUT OFFERING A
POTENTIAL FOR FUTURE
DEVELOPMENT.
HOWEVER THIS IS ENTIRELY
UNSPECIFIED AND MAY NOT BE
FULFILLED.
THIS DEVELOPMENT ITSELF WOULD
REPRESENT A MAJOR MISSED
OPPORTUNITY TO ADD OFFICE SPACE
RETAIL OR POTENTIALLY HOUSING
ALONG A VIBRANT TRANSIT
CORRIDOR.
>> BUT THE SERVICES THE
UNIVERSITY AND IN FACT THE
ENTIRE CITY NEVERTHELESS, THE
PLANNING COMMISSION MUST RULE
ON THE NARROW PROPOSAL THAT IS
PRESENTED HERE NOT ON THE VAGUE
PROMISES OF SOME FUTURE
DEVELOPMENT EDITION OF THIS
DRIVETHROUGH WOULD BRING
ADDITIONAL TRAFFIC FROM A HIGH
SPEED ARTERIAL ROAD ONTO PRARIE
STREET.
THIS THREATENS TO WORSEN
CONGESTION NEAR AN ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL AND A NEIGHBORHOOD POOL
AT TIMES WHEN THERE IS A HIGH
DENSITY OF BOTH VEHICLE TRAFFIC
FOR PICKUPS AND DROP OFFS.
SO ALL AS PARENTS AND KIDS ON
FOOT ON FOOT BIKES AND
SCOOTERS, IT APPEARS THERE HAS
BEEN NO SERIOUS STUDY INTO THE
POTENTIAL IMPACTS OF THIS
PROPOSAL UPON PEDESTRIAN SAFETY
.
AS YOU'VE HEARD, IT RUNS
ENTIRELY COUNTER TO THE CITY'S
STATED MISSION ZERO GOALS AND
THE ZERO CARBON NEUTRALITY PLAN
.
THIS PROJECT APPEARS TO COME
FROM A NINETEEN SIXTIES MINDSET
OUT OF TWENTY TWENTY THREE ONE
IT DOES NOT MERIT A SPECIAL
EXEMPTION USE AND I URGE YOU TO
REJECT THIS APPLICATION.
>> THANK YOU
.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS LIBBY
BUTTON.
YOU'VE PERMISSION TO SPEAK AND
THERE ARE FOUR MORE HANDS
RAISED AFTER LIBBY.
ALL RIGHT.
I MANY LIBBY BENTON AND I LIVE
AT TWO THREE FIVE NINE PRARIE
STREET WHICH IS JUST UP THE
STREET FROM THIS PROPOSED DRIVE
THRU BANK.
>> I HAVE TWO KIDS AGES TWO AND
SIX AND WE ARE MEMBERS OF THE
OLD SCHOOL.
IT'S JUST ACROSS THE STREET
FROM THE SITE WHERE WE SWIM AND
THERE'S A LOVELY WEEKLY OUTDOOR
YOGA CLASS IN THE SUMMER AND WE
WALK BIKE AND DRIVE BY THE SITE
DAILY AND I AM ASKING THE
PLANNING COMMISSION DENIED THE
REQUEST FOR A SPECIAL EXCEPTION
THIS DRIVE THROUGH HAVING
GETTING A DRIVE THROUGH HERE
DOES NOT FIT WITH THE CURRENT
CHARACTER OF OUR NEIGHBORHOOD
OR THE FUTURE PLANS.
OUR NEIGHBORHOOD IS ALREADY
REMARKABLY WALKABLE.
WE'RE ABLE TO WALK TO SOME
MIDDLE SCHOOL AND ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL POOLS HARDWARE STORE
PHARMACY, LIBRARY, GROCERY
STORE AND THAT'S REALLY WHAT
DREW OUR FAMILY AND A LOT
OF OTHER YOUNG FAMILIES
RECENTLY TO THIS NEIGHBORHOOD
AND THE CITY HAS ALREADY MADE
INVESTMENT IN HELPING MAKE OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD WALKABLE INCLUDING
BUMP OUTS ALONG PRARIE AROUND
ABOUT UNEXCELLED IMPLEMENT BIKE
LANES ALONG NIXON AND IN THE
CITY'S OVERALL GOAL FOR THE
CITY'S OVERALL GOAL FOR THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PARTIC BUT IN
PARTICULAR THE CITY IN GENERAL
JUST DOESN'T ALIGN WITH A DRIVE
THRU THE CITY IS COMMITTED TO
EXPANDING AND IMPROVING FIFTEEN
MINUTES NEIGHBORHOODS AND OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD IS ALREADY WELL ON
ITS WAY TO BEING A FIFTEEN
MINUTE NEIGHBORHOOD AND WE NEED
TO MAKE MORE INVESTMENTS IN
NEIGHBORHOODS LIKE OURS TO KEEP
THEM THAT WAY AND EXPAND THEM
AND THE CITY IS YOU KNOW, IS
COMMITTED TO INCREASING DENSITY
ALONG TRANSIT CORRIDORS TO
REDUCE DRIVING AND THIS IS AN
IDEAL LOCATION WHERE I'D LOVE
TO SEE MORE RETAIL COMMERCIAL
HOUSING SO THAT MORE PEOPLE
MORE FAMILIES CAN ACCESS THE
GREAT AMENITIES THAT WE'RE ABLE
TO AND THE CITY IS COMMITTED TO
MAKING PLACES ROADS LIKE
PLYMOUTH ROADS SAFER AND AREAS
LIKE THIS SAFER FOR WALKING AND
BIKING TO ENCOURAGE THAT OVER
DRIVING AND IMPROVING AND
DRIVING AND LOCATION WITHIN THE
EXACT OPPOSITE DIRECTION
BECAUSE YOU'VE GOT PEOPLE
SWINGING IN OFF OF EMPLOYMENT
WHO ARE JUST DRIVING THROUGH
COMING ON TO RESIDENTIAL STREET
AND I'M REALLY AND I'M REALLY
CONCERNED ABOUT, YOU KNOW, THE
KIDS THERE AND THE POTENTIAL
FOR THESE ROADS.
SO I WOULD REALLY ASK THAT YOU
DENY THE SPECIAL USE PERMIT AND
I LOOK FORWARD TO CITY COUNCIL
AND THE PLANNING COMMISSION
MOVING IN A DIRECTION THAT
MAKES IT EVEN EASIER TO BUILD
MORE DENSITY HERE.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT CALLER IS MICHELLE
HUGHES.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO SPEAK
.
>> HI.
>> SO YEAH, I HAVE I HAVE A 17
YEAR OLD THESE PEOPLE THAT THE
THIS DRIVE THROUGH IS A
TERRIBLE USE OF THIS LAND.
HAVING A SINGLE STOREY BUILDING
HERE IS A TERRIBLE USE OF THE
LAND AND I WOULD RATHER SEE
SOMETHING THAT IS GOING TO
ADVANCE SOME OF THE CITY'S
GOALS RATHER THAN GOING
DIRECTLY AGAINST THEM.
I AM SORRY I WORKED AT THAT
EXISTING BUILDING FOR TEN YEARS
AND THAT LET ME THROW IT IS A
HORRIBLE NIGHTMARE THROWED
THERE.
IT'S DEFINITELY CAR LAND AND I
THINK THAT RATHER THAN
ACQUIESCE TO THAT WE NEED TO BE
GOING AGAINST CAR CULTURE AT
EVERY OPPORTUNITY I WOULD SAY
THERE'S A BUS STOP DIRECTLY IN
FRONT OF THE BUILDING BUT
THERE'S THE BUS STOP YOU IF
YOU'RE COMING FROM THE OTHER
DIRECTION THERE'S A BUS STOP
ACROSS THE STREET AND YOU HAVE
TO CROSS PLYMOUTH ROAD WHICH IS
A HORRIBLE NIGHTMARE ROAD AND
THERE'S NO HELP THERE'S NO
MIDWIFED MIDLAKE CROSSWALK
THERE.
THERE'S NO SAFETY ISLAND.
AND SO
, YOU KNOW, IT WOULD BE
SCARY TO APPROACH THIS CREDIT
UNION LOCATION WHEREAS THE
CURRENT CREDIT UNION LOCATION
THERE IS A BLOCK CROSSWALK WITH
AN RFP, THE I USED TO WALK FROM
299 PLYMOUTH TO THE PLYMOUTH
MALL IN THE TRAILER VILLAGE, DO
LOTS OF STUFF AT LUNCH, GO
GROCERY SHOPPING AND STUFF LIKE
THAT AND YOU HAVE TO CROSS YOU
KNOW YOU HAVE TO YOU HAVE TO
WALK DOWN THE SIDEWALK IN FRONT
OF A GAS STATION AND A BANK AND
NEITHER OF THEM EVER SHOVEL THE
SIDEWALK IN THE WINTER.
>> SO BASICALLY THE WHOLE
NEIGHBORHOOD RATE RIGHT AROUND
YOU KNOW THAT IT'S JUST IT'S IT
NEEDS TO BE IMPROVED FOR
PEDESTRIAN SAFETY IS WHAT I'M
SAYING.
AND PUTTING IN ANOTHER BANK
THAT YOU HAVE TO WALK ACROSS
THAT'S GOING TO BE FAR REMOVED
FROM EVERYTHING IS A TERRIBLE
PLAN.
A DRIVE THRU IS JUST GOING TO
ENCOURAGE EVERYONE TO DRIVE AND
PEOPLE WHO ARE CURRENTLY GOING
THERE USING OTHER METHODS IS
GOING TO MAKE IT DIFFICULT FOR
THEM.
SO YEAH, THIS IS THE OPPOSITE
OF WHAT WE NEED.
PLEASE DENY THE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USED FOR THE DRIVE
THRU
.
WE STILL HAVE FOREHANDS ROADS
THERE IF YOU JOINER'S OUR NEXT
CALLER IS MICHAEL ANDERSON.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO SPEAK?
I MIKE ANDERSON I ONLY GET TO
EIGHT OR FOUR BRIARCLIFF I'M
ABOUT HALF A BLOCK AWAY FROM
PRARIE RIGHT NEAR WHERE THE THE
DOLPHIN POOL IS AND RIGHT
AROUND THE CORNER FROM WHERE
THIS LOCATION THAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT IS.
I JUST WANT TO REITERATE AND
EMPHASIZE A COUPLE OF THINGS
THAT PEOPLE HAVE SAID.
>> THE FIRST IS IS IT TRUE THAT
THERE WAS NO TRAFFIC STUDY
CONDUCTED WITH THE PLYMOUTH
ROAD AND FERRY STREET?
I MEAN I FIND THAT HARD TO
BELIEVE BECAUSE YOU KNOW,
DURING THE SCHOOL YEAR AT RUSH
HOUR IN PARTICULAR, THAT IS A
VERY BUSY PLACE NOT ONLY WITH
CARS, WITH PEOPLE DROPPING
THEIR KIDS IN THE MORNING BUT
ALSO WITH WITH PEOPLE WALKING
WITH THEIR KIDS TO SCHOOL AND
KIDS WALKING BY THEMSELVES SO
ANY REASONABLE PERSON WOULD
EXPECT THERE TO BE A TRAFFIC
STUDY DONE TO MEASURE THAT
DURING THE SCHOOL YEAR.
BUT THERE SHOULD ALSO BE A
MEASUREMENT OF IT DURING THE
SUMMER WHEN ONE DOLPHIN POOL IS
GOING ON BECAUSE IT'S NOT JUST
PEOPLE A FEW AT A TIME OVER THE
COURSE OF A DAY WANDERING THE
POOL.
THERE ARE ALSO LESSONS BEING
HELD AND BEING FROM HALF A
BLOCK AWAY AND THEN A PERSON
WHO WALKS HIS DOG I CAN TELL
YOU THAT WHEN THAT HAPPENS
AGAIN THERE'S A CONGESTION.
THERE'S CARS, BIKES AND LOTS
OF KIDS, LOTS OF VERY YOUNG
KIDS AND THAT'S SOMETHING THAT
ONE WOULD HOPE WOULD BE TAKEN
INTO ACCOUNT BEFORE DECIDING
CITING AN ISSUE LIKE THIS.
>> BUT I UNDERSTAND THAT
THERE'S BEEN NO TRAFFIC STUDY
FINALLY THE THE AND I WON'T
TAKE ALL OF YOUR TIME.
>> BUT THE OTHER THING IS THIS
THE THE DOLPHIN POOL HAS BEEN
THERE FOR A LONG TIME.
I STARTED GOING TO IT WHEN I
MOVED HERE IN NINETEEN SEVENTY
THREE THAT WAS A WHILE AGO IN
THE HARBOR AT THIS OF TOWN
LOOKS VERY DIFFERENT THAN IF
YOU WENT UP NIXON ROAD IN THOSE
DAYS YOU FOUND FARMS NOW YOU
FIND THAT NIXON ROAD IS BUSY
WITH LOTS OF TRAFFIC BECAUSE
THERE'S A LOT OF CONSTRUCTION
UP THAT WAY THAT TO ASKED THE
TRAFFIC THROUGH PRARIE AS
PEOPLE TRY TO GET AROUND
GETTING ONTO NIXON FROM AURORA
WHICH IS THE STREET A BLOCK
AWAY FROM THERE AND INSTEAD CUT
DOWN STREETS LIKE BRIARCLIFF
AND EXIT ONTO PLYMOUTH ROAD
FROM PRARIE.
SO IT REALLY, REALLY CAN BE A
MESS WHICH YOU WOULD KNOW IF
THERE HAD BEEN A TRAFFIC STUDY
WHICH I UNDERSTAND THERE HAS IT
BEEN SO ANYWAY I HOPE THAT
NOBODY MOVES FORWARD ON THIS
UNTIL A PROPER STUDIES DONE AND
THE SAFETY OF CHILDREN
PARTICULARLY CHILDREN WAS TAKEN
INTO ACCOUNT.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
OUR NEXT CALLER IS DENHA
RAMASWAMY.
YOU PERMISSION TO SPEAK?
>> HELLO MY NAME IS DENHA
RAMASWAMY.
I AM A UMC EU MEMBER AND A
RESIDENT AT BROMLEY WHICH IS
THE NEIGHBORHOOD THAT BACKS
ONTO THIS PROPOSAL.
I WILL SAY THAT MANY OF THE
PEOPLE HAVE CALLED AND HAVE THE
SAME CONCERNS I DO.
I WANTING THE PLANNING
COMMISSION TO REALLY EVALUATE
THIS AREA.
IF YOU GO AND SEE FROM A
TRAFFIC STUDY PROPONENT FROM
PLYMOUTH ROAD THE BACK UP WILL
GO FROM HERE ON PARKWAY ALL THE
WAY DOWN THAT CENTER LANE THIS
MORNING I SAW IT GO ALL THE WAY
DOWN TO GEORGETOWN STREET.
IT WAS BACKED UP EARLY MORNING
A SCHOOL STARTS YOU'LL START
SEEING PEOPLE TRYING TO TURN
LEFT AND RIGHT OUT OF PRARIE
AND ON TO PRARIE FROM PLYMOUTH
ROAD TO THIS INTERSECTION THAT
HAS A FORTY FIVE MILE PER HOUR
LANE.
YOU'LL SEE A LOT OF CONGESTION
JUST FROM THE EXISTING TRAFFIC
AND THEN TO KNOW THAT THERE IS
A PROPOSAL FOR THREE LANES TO
GO ONTO A NEIGHBORHOOD STREET
ONTO PRARIE THEN ON AND OFF
THAT WILL CAUSE EVEN MORE
PROBLEMS.
I HAVE COUNTED SEVEN BUSSES
FROM THE ANN ARBOR SCHOOL
DISTRICT THAT COME DOWN VERY IN
THE MORNING AND LEAVE AT THREE
O'CLOCK.
SO THESE ARE ALL AREAS THAT ARE
ALREADY HIGHLY CONGESTED.
ALSO A CONCERN OF MINE IS THIS
IS A SPACE THAT YOU'RE
PROPOSING A SINGLE USE BUILDING
IN A COMMUNITY THAT'S IN A
COMMUNITY AND IN A T ONE ZONE
WHERE IT'S A TRANSIT CORRIDOR
FOR VERY FEW PEOPLE TO
POTENTIALLY USE.
WE ARE IN TWENTY TWENTY THREE
IN A DIGITAL WORLD.
I DON'T UNDERSTAND WHY WE NEED
ANOTHER LARGE BANK SECOND UMC
WHICH CURRENTLY ISN'T A GREAT
LOCATION FROM AN ACCESSIBILITY
STANDPOINT.
IT'S NEAR THE STILL STUDENTS
THE BUS LANE IT'S WALKABLE,
IT'S VIABLE, IT'S ACCESSIBLE.
I'M NOT OPPOSED TO UMC COMING
BUT I WOULD LOVE THEM TO BE
PART A COMMUNITY WHERE THERE'S
MORE USE OF THAT SPACE WHERE
THERE'S A DAYCARE CENTER,
RETAIL WHAT WHATNOT TO MAKE IT
MORE PART OF THE COMMUNITY
RATHER THAN THE COOKIE CUTTER
BANK THAT YOU SEE THROUGHOUT
THE CITY THAT'S JUST A SINGLE
USE LARGE BUILDING WITH THREE
HUGE LANES GOING INTO A
NEIGHBORHOOD SO I REALLY ASKED
THE PLANNING COMMISSION TO
REALLY THINK ABOUT WHAT THE
FUTURE OF ANN ARBOR IS, WHAT
THE FUTURE OF PLYMOUTH ROAD IS
AND REALLY THINK ABOUT HOW WE
WANT TO MOVE FORWARD AS A CITY
AND AS A COMMUNITY AND THE
PEOPLE THAT LIVE HERE, WE WE
WANT IT TO BE VIABLE, WALKABLE
AND WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
IT'S SAFE FROM A TRAFFIC
PERSPECTIVE.
SO PLEASE WITH TRAFFIC STUDY
AND UNDERSTAND WHAT HAPPENS
EVERYDAY ON THAT STREET AND HOW
MANY NEAR MISSES I HAVE SEEN
AND I FEEL MOST HAD SO PLEASE
RECONSIDER OR CONSIDER NOT
PROPOSING GOING FORWARD WITH
THIS PROPOSAL.
>> THANK YOU
.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JOHN PARK.
YOU'VE PERMISSION TO SPEAK
EVERYBODY.
THANK YOU FOR THIS.
>> I'M MUTED THAT COLOR DUE TO
VULGAR LANGUAGE AND WE'RE GOING
TO MOVE ON TO OUR NEXT CALLER
WHICH IS BRANDON CURRINGTON.
>> YOU'VE PERMISSION TO SPEAK
BRANDON CURRINGTON.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
THE PLANNING PERMISSION
.
>> I WILL COME BACK TO BRANDON
CURRINGTON.
ALEX LOWE, YOU HAVE PERMISSION
TO SPEAK.
>> HI, THIS IS ALEX LOWE
CALLING IN FROM THREE FORTY
FERNWOOD AVENUE
OF COMMISSIONERS AND FREQUENT
VIEWERS ARE PROBABLY FAMILIAR
WITH BEAR WITH ME FROM MY
REGULAR CALLS IN FAVOR
OF PRETTY MUCH EVERY NEW
DEVELOPMENT INCLUDING THE
AVALON DEVELOPMENT ON THE OLD
AND THE GARY SIDE AND THE
PROPOSED TOWN HOUSES ON PARKER.
>> SO WITH THAT IN MIND I'D
LIKE TO SAY NO, NO NO NO NO NO
NO NO NO NO NO NO NO NO.
>> THIS LOOKS TERRIBLE.
THIS HONESTLY SEEMS LIKE A THE
PLANNING COMMISSION VERSION
OF A HOMEWORK ASSIGNMENT
RUSHDOONY DONE IN CLASS BEFORE
THE TEACHER THE TEACHER PICKED
IT UP AND IT I CAN I CAN SEE
WHY SOMEONE WOULD I WOULD WANT
TO DO THAT RATHER THAN THE
THROUGH MORE FULLY IF THEY
DON'T WANT TO HAVE TO
PHOTOGRAPH THE OBLIGATIONS
OF ONE WHEN IT INEVITABLY COMES
TO THIS CORRIDOR.
SO INSTEAD THEY JUST SORT
OF RUSHED THROUGH HALF A
PROJECT IN AND HOPES THAT THAT
THEY COULD SNEAK THEIR RADAR
BEFORE ONE SO THAT THAT'S KIND
OF FROZEN ME THE WRONG WAY
ALREADY.
BUT THEN THERE IS SO THERE'S SO
MANY OTHER THINGS THAT I THINK
ARE RIDICULOUS ABOUT FOUR FOR
ONE.
WHY WHY ARE THE FOUR NOT EVEN
WORRYING ABOUT MOVING THE KOCOT
ON THEIR MOUTH AND HAVING TO
MOVE THE BUS STOP AND ALL
OF THAT?
WHY WHY IS THERE EVEN A COACH
ON AFTER THE STOP THE CURRENT
COACH IS RIGHT NEXT TO ANOTHER
AND OTHER COACH COULD WORK AT
WORK OUT A DEAL WITH PNC BANK.
THEY HAVE PLENTY OF A SPACE IN
THERE ON
THEIR LIGHTS, THEIR
TINY LITTLE BANK
BUILDING IS A
POSTAGE STAMP IN IT, A SEA
OF ASPHALT AND WHEN THERE'S A
THERE'S ALSO A CURB ON PRARIE
STREET.
DO YOU NEED TO CURB FOR THIS
KID?
YEAH.
WHAT I NOTICED I HAVE ONE.
AND WHAT ABOUT ALL THAT PARKING
IS THAT IS A LOT OF A PARKING
LOT FOR SOMEWHERE THAT THESE
DAYS SELDOM HAS BEEN PEOPLE IN
ALL IN ALL THIS SEEMS LIKE IT'S
A TERRIBLE IDEA.
>> IT'S A MIXED USE IN THERE
INSTEAD.
THANK YOU.
I'LL TRY ONE MORE TIME FOR
BRANDON CURRINGTON.
YOU PERMISSION TO ADDRESS THE
PLANNING?
>> HELLO MY NAME IS BRANDON
CURRINGTON.
CAN YOU HEAR ME BECAUSE MIKE
WASN'T WORKING LAST NIGHT.
I'M I'M WONDERING IF YOU CAN
HEAR ME WE CAN HEAR YOU ALL
RIGHT.
>> I'M VERY ENCOURAGING.
I'M A DEPUTY AND I LIVE ON
NORTH FLAGSTAFF.
>> I I HAVE AN ISSUE REGARDING
REGARDING THE MOSQUES IN THE
AREA.
THERE'S JUST A LACK OF MOSQUES
AND I JUST GENERALLY THINK THAT
WE SHOULD BUILD MORE MOSQUES.
>> THANK YOU AND THANK YOU THAT
IS YOUR LAST CALLER.
OK, I'M GOING TO READ THEIR
PROPOSED MOTION AND THEN WE
WILL GO INTO DISCUSSION.
THERE ARE TWO SO I'M GOING TO
READ THEM TOGETHER THE FIRST
ONE IS THAT CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION AFTER HEARING ALL
INTERESTED PERSONS AND
REVIEWING ALL RELEVANT
INFORMATION FINDS THE PETITION
TO SUBSTANTIALLY MEET THE
STANDARDS IN CHAPTER 55 THE
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE SECTION FIVE POINT TO NINE
POINT FIVE SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS
APPROVES THE UMC SPECIAL
EXEMPTION USED FOR A THREE LANE
DRIVE THROUGH BANK FACILITY
WITH THE FOLLOWING CONDITION.
THIS APPROVAL IS BASED ON THE
FOLLOWING FINDINGS NO ONE WILL
BE CONSISTENT WITH THE GENERAL
OBJECTIVES OF THE CITY
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN OF OFFICE
USES IN THE AREA AND NO TO THE
PROPOSED USE WILL NOT ADVERSELY
IMPACT TRAFFIC PEDESTRIANS,
BICYCLISTS, CIRCULATION OR ROAD
INTERSECTIONS BASED ON THE
LOCATION THE PROPOSED USE IS
CONSISTENT WITH OTHER
SURROUNDING USES TRAFFIC IMPACT
.
THE SECOND MOTION IS THE CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION HEREBY
APPROVES THE UMC SITE PLAN
SUBJECT TO NUMBER ONE
DEMOLISHING THE EXISTING
STRUCTURE ON SITE NUMBER TWO
DIVIDING THE SUBJECT POZOLE
FROM A APPARENT PARCEL AND
NUMBER THREE A LANDSCAPE
MODIFICATION AT THE LOCATION
OF STREET TREES OUTSIDE THE
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY AS REQUIRED
IN FIVE POINT TWO POINT ONE OH
OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE THAT IS
THE MOTION MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER DISH AND SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER MILLS.
WE ARE IN DISCUSSION
COMMISSIONER WHICH BECAUSE THE
SEIU IS IN THE MOTION THAT WE
JUST DID COULD WE SPLIT THEM
OUT THAT IS TO SAY TO DENY THE
SEIU BUT APPROVE THE SITE OR
BECAUSE WE READ THE MOTION
TOGETHER WE WOULD HAVE TO VOTE
BOTH DOWN YOU THAT IS YOU COULD
YOU TAKE THE MOTION SEPARATELY
BUT THEN THE SITE IS NOT GOING
TO COMPLY BECAUSE YOU WOULD BE
REQUIRED JUST WANTED TO YES YOU
COULD YOU COULD TAKE THEM
SEPARATELY.
OK, THANKS COMMISSIONER OLLI
THANK YOU.
QUICK QUESTION ON THE TOPIC
OF ELECTRICITY ELECTRIFICATION
IN THE REPORT THE COMMENT WAS
AT VARIOUS OPERATIONAL AND
MAINTENANCE ISSUES THAT WOULD
ALMOST CERTAINLY BE REALIZED IF
A FULLY ELECTRIFIED BUILDING
WERE TO BE INCORPORATED.
COULD YOU EXPOUND ON THAT AND
WHAT KIND OF VARIOUS
OPERATIONAL MAINTENANCE ISSUES
THAT YOU GUYS WERE ANTICIPATING
FROM A FULLY ELECTRIC SYSTEM
?
I HOPE SOMETHING POPS BLACK
ARCHITECTS.
>> THE ISSUES ARE ARE REALLY
OPERATIONAL AS WELL AS COSTS
AND MAINTENANCE.
SO THE GUN ELECTRIFIED SYSTEM
THAT'S BEEN REFERENCED
FREQUENTLY IS REQUIRE
SIGNIFICANT MORE MAINTENANCE
AND OPERATIONAL COST THAN THAN
THE TRADITIONAL SYSTEM FOR A
FACILITY OF THIS SIZE.
AND SO THE DECISION ON WHICH
DIRECTION TO GO WITH THE SYSTEM
IS MORE ABOUT THE THE SYSTEM
ITSELF THAN THE ACTUAL FUEL.
SO THAT'S AN ONGOING
DISCUSSION.
BUT AT THIS POINT WE HAVE NOT
DESIGNED THE MECHANICAL SYSTEM
ALTHOUGH TRADITIONALLY WE USE
LABORATORY WE NORMALLY USE A
MORE TRADITIONAL FUEL SYSTEM
THAT THE BANK IS MORE
COMFORTABLE WITH AND IS BOTH
ECONOMICAL AND SOMETHING THAT'S
MORE MAINTAINABLE THERE ISN'T
ACTUALLY LIKE A LIST OF THINGS
I'D LIKE TO BE ABLE TO GIVE YOU
LIKE A LIST OF LIKE PROBLEMS
WITH FOR EXAMPLE, HEAT PUMP
SYSTEMS.
THERE REALLY ISN'T ANYTHING
LIKE THAT.
IT'S MORE OF AN OPERATING
FACILITIES OPERATION QUESTION
THAT EACH BUSINESS HAS TO HAS
TO ADDRESS.
OK, THANK YOU.
I'M OK.
>> THANK YOU.
DOES ANYBODY ELSE WANT TO
EXPOUND ON THAT?
SURE.
I THINK A FEW OF US WOULD
COMMISSIONAIRE DISH.
>> YEAH OK SO I GUESS WE COULD
START THERE SINCE WE JUST
STARTED THERE BUT SO I DON'T
MEAN TO BE UNGENEROUS BUT DID
YOU JUST SAY THAT BECAUSE WE
ARE NOT ACCUSTOMED TO
ELECTRIFICATION WE DIDN'T
EXPLORE IT AND WE DON'T THINK
IT WILL WORK.
I MEAN THAT SOUNDED LIKE THAT
WAS YOUR ANSWER.
>> OH I WOULD SAY IT'S NOT
ABOUT WHETHER IT'LL WORK OR NOT
IS IT'S JUST A IT'S WAY
DOWNSTREAM OF PLANNING SO THAT
THIS IS A FACILITIES OPERATION
QUESTION AS OF POSTWAR PLANNING
QUESTIONS.
SO WHEN IT COMES TO ENGINEERING
A BUILDING WE GET INTO A LOT
OF ISSUES THAT MAKE UP THE
FACILITY IN GENERAL.
>> SO IT'S NOT A MATTER OF IT
NOT WORKING.
IT'S A MATTER OF IT FUNCTIONING
FOR THE FOR THE BUSINESS IN
QUESTION.
IN THIS CASE WE DO HAVE
OF CLIENTS THAT HAVE USED ALL
ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS AND ARE ARE
HAPPY WITH THOSE.
BUT IT IT'S IT'S NOT A ONE SIZE
FITS ALL.
IT'S EASY FOR US TO KIND
OF GENERALIZE AND AND WANT TO
SAY THAT THAT ONE PARTICULAR
SYSTEM WILL FIT ANY FACILITY
THAT YOU WANT TO APPLY IT TO.
BUT THAT'S NOT THE CASE AND I
THINK THAT'S ONE OF THE THINGS
YOU'RE FINDING ACROSS THE
COMMUNITY.
WHERE WERE VARIOUS BUSINESS
OWNERS ARE FINDING THAT THAT
THERE ISN'T A ONE SIZE FITS ALL
ELECTRIC SOLUTION FOR EVERYBODY
IF THERE WAS THEN THIS WOULD BE
A NO BRAINER.
EVERYBODY WOULD JUST SAY SURE,
YOU KNOW THAT THAT'S NOT AN
ISSUE BUT IT IS A CONCERN AND
ONE THAT EACH BUSINESS HAS TO
ADDRESS.
SO THEN YOUR EMPHASIS IS MORE
THAT YOU HAVEN'T DESIGNED THE
MECHANICALS FOR THIS BUILDING
YET?
WE HAVE DESIGNED WE'VE DONE A
NUMBER OF BUILDINGS FOR THE
CREDIT UNION AND SO ARE OUR
INCLINATION IS TO TO CONTINUE
WITH SYSTEMS THAT HAVE WORKED
IN THE PAST.
HOWEVER, THAT IS ACCURATE.
WE HAVE NOT DESIGNED THE SYSTEM
FOR THIS BUILDING YET.
>> IT'S TRUE.
YEAH.
BECAUSE YOU WERE SAYING THAT
THIS IS A I THINK YOU SAID IT'S
A BUILDING THING, NOT A
PLANNING THING.
>> WELL THAT'S THAT'S
SUBJECTIVE OF OUR SEPARATION.
SO IT'S YES IT'S A IT IS A
BUILDING ENGINEERING ISSUE
THOUGH FOR SURE.
>> SORRY I'M CONFUSED.
I'M GOING TO LET SOMEONE ELSE
FOLLOW UP BECAUSE I MUST NOT BE
TRACKING IT SEEMS TO ME WHEN I
LOOK AT THIS BUILDING AND I'VE
WORKED ON SEVERAL THAT ARE ALL
ELECTRIC AND THAT HAVE HEAT
PUMPS AND SOLAR AND THINGS LIKE
THAT THAT THIS BUILDING IS
ACTUALLY PARTICULARLY WELL SET
UP TO BE ABLE TO HAVE A SYSTEM
LIKE THAT.
UM, I'M A LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT,
NOT AN ARCHITECT BUT I WILL
JUST SAY I'VE BEEN ASSOCIATED
WITH MANY PROJECTS THAT HAVE
THESE KINDS OF SYSTEMS.
YOU HAVE A ONE STOREY BUILDING
,YOU HAVE A TON OF ROOF AREA.
YOU HAVE AREA OF GREEN AREA IN
WHICH YOU COULD DO SOME SORT
OF YOU KNOW, UNDERGROUND SYSTEM
FOR THIS TO WHETHER THEY'RE A
LOOP SYSTEM OR WELLS AND IT
GETS HARDER AS YOU GO UP AS
YOUR ENERGY DEMANDS GO UP AND
AS YOU HAVE LESS AREA TO BE
ABLE TO SET UP SOLAR SO IT
SEEMS TO ME BASED ON SORT
OF READING BETWEEN THE LINES
OF I GUESS I JUST SORT OF WANT
TO UNDERSTAND IT SEEMS TO ME
THAT IT'S BECAUSE YOU ALL
DIDN'T KIND OF START THINKING
THAT WAY FROM THE BEGINNING
THAT YOU'VE ENDED UP WHERE YOU
ARE RATHER THAN YOU KNOW, IT
DIDN'T SEEM LIKE THAT WAS ONE
OF YOUR GOALS.
AND I THINK THAT PART OF WHAT
WE'VE BEEN HEARING FROM THE
COMMUNITY AND ALSO WHAT WE'VE
BEEN DISCUSSING HERE FOR MONTHS
AND YEARS IS THAT WE WANT
PEOPLE WE ARE TRYING TO THERE'S
A LOT OF THINGS ABOUT THE
DIRECTION OF THIS CORRIDOR THAT
FEEL LIKE ARE JUST NOT BEING
ADDRESSED AT ALL.
THERE'S A LOT OF THINGS ABOUT
THE DIRECTION OF WHERE A CITY
WANTS TO GO.
IT FEELS LIKE IT'S NOT BEING
ADDRESSED HERE AT ALL.
SO I'VE BEEN ON PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR SEVEN YEARS NOW.
I WOULD SAY IF THIS HAD COME
THROUGH SEVEN YEARS AGO I WOULD
HAVE A DIFFERENT OPINION ABOUT
IT.
BUT IT FEELS LIKE IT'S JUST NOT
HITTING IT'S I DON'T KNOW HOW
STAFF INFORMED YOU AROUND DRIVE
THROUGH IT BUT WE'VE BEEN
REJECTING THEM FOR YEARS NOW SO
IT JUST FEELS LIKE THIS IS SORT
OF FALLING LIKE THAT.
YOU ALL HAVEN'T BEEN LISTENING
TO WHAT HAS BEEN DISCUSSED AT
THIS TABLE SO
THERE'S A LOT
THAT I JUST BROUGHT UP THEIR
ENERGY AND AROUND USE AND
AROUND KIND OF OUR GOALS BUT
AND WE UNDERSTAND THAT WE CAN'T
MANDATE YOU TO DO THIS.
I JUST FIND THE RESPONSE
LACKING IN TERMS OF IS GOING TO
BE HARD FOR US TO TAKE CARE
OF WHEN I KNOW OF MANY PROJECTS
THAT ARE DOING JUST FINE WITH
THAT THAT ARE USING THESE KINDS
OF SYSTEMS QUITE WELL.
>> HI, I'M DIANE RAMOS.
I'M WITH THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN CREDIT UNION.
JUST TO LET YOU KNOW I WANTED
TO MAKE MENTION THAT WE HAVE
TWO LOCATIONS WHERE WE DID DO
THE HEAT PUMP SYSTEM AND WE DID
THAT BACK IN TWENTY FIFTEEN AND
MAYBE TWENTY EIGHTEEN.
>> SO IT IS A SYSTEM THAT WE
DID EXPLORE.
WE WOULD CONSIDER EXPLORING IT
AGAIN WHEN WE DID IT AT THAT
TIME THE TECHNOLOGY WASN'T
QUITE THERE.
WE WERE FAR AHEAD AND SO THOSE
SYSTEMS HAVE NOT WORKED
PROPERLY AND SO THAT IS WHAT
KIND OF HAS MADE OUR DECISION
TO GO REVERT BACK TO THE
TRADITIONAL MECHANICAL SYSTEMS
.
SO IT DOESN'T MEAN THAT WE'RE
NOT WILLING TO GO THAT ROUTE
AND LOOK AT IT AGAIN IF THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT THE
COMMISSIONERS WOULD REQUEST
THAT WE DO.
BUT JUST TO LET YOU KNOW, WE
DID CONSIDER THAT FOR THIS
LOCATION BUT BECAUSE OF THE
DIFFICULTIES WE DID HAVE IN THE
PAST IS WHY WE'VE LOOKED AT
GOING BACKWARDS SO I HOPE THAT
HELPS A LITTLE BIT CLARIFY SOME
OF THAT.
>> OK, THANK YOU COMMISSIONER
LEE AND A FOLLOW UP AND IT WAS
MOSTLY OUT OF CURIOSITY BECAUSE
I DID FIND THAT DESCRIPTION
OF VARIOUS MAINTENANCE AND
OPERATIONAL ISSUES WOULD LIKELY
BE FULLY REALIZED.
IT JUST SEEMED VAGUE TO ME SO I
APPRECIATE THAT YOU GUYS HAVE
DONE HE PUMPS IN THE OTHER TWO
LOCATIONS AND BUT YOU GUYS HAVE
HAD BAD EXPERIENCES WITH THEM
SO FAR SO THAT THAT IS HELPFUL.
>> IT DOESN'T MEAN THAT THE
TECHNOLOGY HASN'T IMPROVED AND
WE WOULDN'T CONSIDER MAYBE
LOOKING AT SOMETHING DIFFERENT
FOR THIS LOCATION I'M SURE.
THANK YOU.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME.
I WAS PLANNING ON ACTUALLY
ASKING QUESTIONS ABOUT
SOMETHING ELSE UNLESS SOMEBODY
ELSE WANTED TO ASK MORE
QUESTIONS ON THIS TOPIC.
>> OK, ONE OF THE THINGS I
WANTED TO SAY THAT I REALLY
LIKED ABOUT THIS IS THE RAIN
GARDEN.
THE STORMWATER RETENTION.
SO I JUST WANT TO POSITIVELY
NOTE THAT THIS CURRENTLY IS A
YOU KNOW, AN ASPHALT SITE OF A
PARKING LOT AND THAT THE FACT
THAT THIS CAN ACTUALLY RETAIN
WATER IS ACTUALLY VERY HELPFUL.
THE OTHER QUESTION THAT I
WANTED TO ASK WAS WHAT'S
HAPPENING WITH PARCEL TO WOULD
IT REMAIN OFFICE AND WHAT ARE
SOME OF THE DISCUSSIONS AROUND
FROM A CONTINUE OF URBAN FORM
STANDPOINT?
WHAT ARE SOME OF THE THOUGHT
PROCESS BEHIND THE REMAINING
FORTY TWO PERCENT OF THE LAND
ON PARCEL TO GREAT QUESTION AND
THANK YOU FOR ASKING.
WE HAVE NOT HAD SIGNIFICANT
CONVERSATIONS ABOUT WHAT WOULD
HAPPEN AND WHAT WE WOULD DO TO
EITHER DEVELOP OR LOOK AT WHAT
COULD HAPPEN OR A DEVELOPER
DEVELOPING THAT SITE AT THIS
POINT WE ARE TRYING TO KIND
OF BREAK IT IN ALMOST TWO
PHASES.
LET'S GET THROUGH PHASE ONE AND
THEN WE'LL CONSIDER WHAT WE
WHAT HAPPENS WITH THE SECOND
PARCEL GOING FORWARD GOT GOT IT
UNDERSTOOD.
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
AND THEN LET ME GET TO THE
SALIENT ONE THAT I THINK A LOT
OF PEOPLE HAVE CALLED ABOUT
WHICH IS WE TALK
ELECTRIFICATION.
I WILL EVENTUALLY COME BACK TO
THAT.
THE OTHER ONE I WANT TO TALK
ABOUT ARE THE DRIVE THRU IS I
WANTED TO ASK ABOUT UTILIZATION
AS WELL AS THE PETITIONERS
THOUGHT PROCESS IN WHY THEY'RE
REQUESTING THIS GIVEN OBVIOUSLY
THE DISCUSSIONS THAT WE'VE HAD
ABOUT DRIVE THROUGH IN THE
PREVIOUS SESSIONS HERE.
AND SO IF YOU COULD TELL US A
LITTLE MORE SO THAT WE CAN
UNDERSTAND FROM YOUR
PERSPECTIVE THIS IS THE
UTILIZATION RATES THAT WE
EXPECT OR THINGS OF THAT NATURE
THAT HELP US TO BETTER
UNDERSTAND WHY THREE LANES ARE
INCLUDED IN SOMETHING THAT IS
AGAIN TURNING OFF OF A
RESIDENTIAL KIND OF AREA.
>> SO IN THE THREE LANES ONE IS
A.T.M DRIVE UP IN THE OTHER TWO
ARE ACTUAL PNEUMATIC TUBES.
A TELLER WOULD A SYSTEM NO OUR
CAR DRIVING THROUGH SO THERE
ARE THREE LANES BUT THEY'RE NOT
THE SAME TYPE OF THREE LANES
FOR THE DRIVE THROUGH FROM OUR
PERSPECTIVE OF ESPECIALLY GOING
THROUGH THE PANDEMIC OUR
OPERATION WAS ONLY OPEN FOR A
DRIVE THROUGH TRAFFIC AS THOUGH
AS WAS MANY OTHER BUSINESSES
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD I GUESS
THE COUNTRY FOR SURE.
YOU KNOW THAT'S HOW WE OPERATED
AND SERVED OUR MEMBERS WAS THAT
WAY AND SO WE FEEL SHOULD
ANYTHING LIKE THAT HAPPEN AGAIN
IN THE FUTURE, IT'S DEFINITELY
A WAY TO STILL SERVE OUR
MEMBERS TO HELP THEM, YOU KNOW,
AND KEEP EVERYBODY SAFE.
THE MEMBERS IN THE TEAM MEMBERS
IN THE BUILDING IN ADDITION,
IT'S ABOUT CHOICES FOR MEMBERS
ULTIMATELY IS HOW DO YOU LIKE
TO UTILIZE YOUR FINANCIAL
INSTITUTION?
DO YOU WANT TO DRIVE THROUGH?
DO I HAVE KIDS IN THE CAR AND I
JUST HAD A SURGERY.
CAN I NOT GET OUT?
ARE THERE THINGS THAT ARE
RESTRICTING ME FROM WALKING
INTO A FINANCIAL INSTITUTION?
SO THERE'S LOTS OF REASONS
BEHIND WANTING TO HAVE A DRIVE
THROUGH SERVICE TO REALLY BE
ABLE TO PROVIDE THAT TO OUR
MEMBER BASE.
>> GODCHAUX, THANK YOU.
WELL IT'S REALLY ALWAYS HELPFUL
TO HEAR FROM THE PETITIONER
ABOUT THE RATIONALES OF HOW
IT'S BEING UTILIZED AND FOR WHO
YOU GUYS ARE THINKING THAT
OF TO ADD ON TO THAT, I THINK
THE CONCERNS THAT WE HAVE AND
WE VOICE TO ADD ADDITIONAL
CONFLICT POINTS BETWEEN NON
MOTORIZED TRANSPORTATION AND
OBVIOUSLY AUTO CENTRIC VEHICLES
TO THAT EFFECT.
I WANTED TO ASK JUST ABOUT THE
DESIGN ORIENTATION INTENT
OF HAVING THE FRONT FACING WEST
AND I WANTED TO JUST GET A
SENSE OF I'M NOT SURE THAT I
SAW A ELEVATION FROM THE
PRAIRIE SIDE BUT WHAT THE
EXPERIENCE OF A PEDESTRIAN ON
PRAIRIE MIGHT FEEL LIKE ON THAT
CORNER.
OH, OK.
OH THANK YOU E THANK YOU.
SO SO THEY'LL THEY'LL LOOK AT
BASICALLY DRIVE THRU LANES IN
THE REAR OF THE BUILDING
BECAUSE THAT'S IT'S BASICALLY A
TWO SIDED BUILDING AT THE FACES
BOTH THE PLYMOUTH ROAD AND IT
FACES WEST AS WELL.
THIS IS THE ORIENTATION TOWARDS
THE OFFICE OR THE KIND OF THE
FUNCTIONAL ASPECT OF THE
FACILITY SO CORRECT.
GOT IT UNDERSTOOD.
>> I THINK A LOT OF FOLKS HAVE
EXPRESSED SOME CONCERNS ABOUT
KIND OF THE COMMUNAL FIELD
OF IT.
I IT ALSO STANDS TO REASON THAT
PLYMOUTH STILL IS AN AUTO
CENTRIC CORRIDOR OF WHICH THE
COMMUTER DIVISIONS ARE INTENDED
TO BE AGAIN MORE NON MOTORIZED
TRANSIT AS WELL AS ADDITIONAL
WE'VE TALKED ABOUT POROSITY
OF NON MOTORIZED TRANSIT.
SO THANK YOU.
I TALKED ABOUT DESIGN
ELECTRIFICATION.
>> I WOULD ALSO ADD THAT WITH
THE CONCERN EXPRESSED ABOUT
VEHICLE TRAFFIC AND SO ON HERE
WHERE THE EXISTING FACILITY HAS
ONE HUNDRED AND FORTY SIX CAR
PARKING LOT AND WE'RE PROPOSING
TWENTY TWO OF SO AND THAT IS IN
THE SAME ORIENTATION SAME
LOCATION FACILITY.
WE'RE ALSO IF YOU LOOK AT THE
AT THE SITE PLAN AS IT EXISTS
NOW AND AS FOR PROPOSING IT
IT'S SIGNIFICANT LESS DENSE,
LESS POROUS IN TERMS OF OPEN
SPACE AND GREEN SPACE AND SO
ON.
IT HAS A MUCH LOWER PROFILE
OF BOTH FACING THE NEIGHBORHOOD
AND FACING THE BOTH STREET
FRONT.
SO THOSE ARE SOME OF THE ASSETS
THAT WE WE VIEW THIS FACILITY
OVER WHAT IS EXISTING THERE.
>> GOTCHA.
THANK YOU.
AND I WOULD LIKE TO SAY THAT I
DID RECEIVE THE MIDWEST TRIP
GENERATION REPORT IN WHICH I
BELIEVE TO QUOTE AFTER APPLYING
THE PAST BY TRAFFIC REDUCTION,
THE PROPOSED BANK IS EXPECTED
TO GENERATE THIRTY ONE LESS
TRIPS DURING MORNING PEAK HOUR
IN APPROXIMATELY THE SAME
TRAFFIC AS THE EXISTING OFFICE
DURING THE AFTERNOON PEAK HOUR
.
SO THAT'S SOMETHING I DID WANT
TO MENTION.
WE DO HAVE IN OUR POSSESSION
THE TRAFFIC TRIP GENERATION
REPORT.
I THINK I'VE TAKEN UP PLENTY
OF TIME.
I'LL USE THE REST OF MY TIME.
>> THANK YOU COMMISSIONER DISH.
I HAVE JUST A QUESTION THAT
FOLLOWS FROM THAT IF IF I MAY
SPEAK FOR THE LAYPERSON AS THE
REPRESENTATIVE WHO REPRESENTS
LAYPERSONS I, I ACTUALLY I
DON'T KNOW WHAT PASSED BY
TRAFFIC REDUCTION ACTUALLY
MEANS.
I MEAN I COULD PROBABLY MAKE A
STAB BUT YEAH SO THE PASS BY
REDUCTION ACCOUNTS FOR VEHICLES
THAT ARE ALREADY TRAVELING AND
PLYMOUTH OR IN THE VICINITY
THAT AREN'T THIS ISN'T THEIR
DESTINATION BUT BECAUSE THEY
PASS BY AND SEE THAT THIS IS AN
OPPORTUNITY THAT THEY MAY BE
ABLE TO TAKE JUST BECAUSE
THEY'RE IN THE AREA SO WHEN WE
LOOK AT TRIP GENERATION AND
WE'RE COMPARING THIS PROPOSED
USE TO THE EXISTING USE OF AN
OFFICE BUILDING, THOSE ARE THE
THE OFFICE BUILDING ITSELF THAT
USE GENERATES A CERTAIN NUMBER
OF TRIPS DEDICATED YOU KNOW, AM
AND PM PEAK HOURS THE SAME WITH
THE BANK.
BUT THERE IS THAT REDUCTION
BECAUSE THE BANK HAS A LITTLE
THERE'S NOT AS MANY COMPARED TO
AN OFFICE USE OF PEOPLE THAT
ARE JUST HAPPENED TO BE DRIVING
DOWN PLYMOUTH LET'S SEE AN
OFFICE BUILDING AND THINK HEY,
I'M GOING TO STOP IN THERE
WHEREAS A MEMBER MIGHT BE
DRIVING BY TO A DIFFERENT
DESTINATION AND PLYMOUTH BUT
SEE THAT HEY, THERE'S MY BANK
AND I MIGHT BE ABLE TO MAKE
ANOTHER STOP IN THERE.
OK, SO THE THING THAT IS
CONFUSING AND AGAIN IT MIGHT
JUST BE ME IS THAT IT'S
ACTUALLY A TRACTOR.
>> THE BANK IS A TRACTOR I PASS
BY I THINK OH I CAN ZIP BY THE
ATM AND PICK UP SOME CASH
WHEREAS WITH THE OFFICE IT'S
NOT I MEAN UNLESS I HAD A
SPECIFIC REASON
FOR GOING THERE
I'M NOT GOING TO SPONTANEOUSLY
GO SO IT'S A PASS BY TRAFFIC.
>> IT'S CALLED A REDUCTION.
OH RIGHT.
AND I THINK IT'S MORE IN
RELATION TO EVALUATING TRAFFIC
ON THOSE STREETS RIGHT ON
PLYMOUTH ROAD AND ON PRARIE.
SO THERE'S THERE'S AN
EVALUATION OF HOW MUCH TRAFFIC
IS BEING GENERATED ON THESE
STREETS SO THAT REDUCTION
HAPPENS BECAUSE THOSE
PERCENTAGE OF THOSE VEHICLES
ARE ALREADY TRAVELING DOWN
PLYMOUTH OR PRARIE.
>> I SEE.
I SEE.
SO THEY DIDN'T THEY WERE THEY
WERE GOING THERE ANYWAY.
>> THEY WERE GOING TO A
DIFFERENT DESTINATION.
THEY WERE GOING SOMEWHERE THAT
WASN'T THE BANK.
CORRECT.
SO THEY DON'T COUNT AS TRAFFIC
ADDED TRAFFIC HAS ADDED
TRAFFIC.
>> OK, THAT'S INTERESTING.
BUT FROM THE PERSPECTIVE
OF CONFLICT POINTS IT SEEMS
LIKE THEY DO COUNT AS ADDED
TRAFFIC.
OK THEN I'M I FEEL CLEARER.
COMMISSIONER OR ELSE WHILE
WE'RE LOOKING AT THE TRAFFIC
STUDY, I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE
THAT I UNDERSTAND THIS RIGHT SO
AND TO REFRESH MY UNDERSTANDING
OF HOW THIS IS USED IN THE
CONTEXT OF OUR CODE .
SO TYPICALLY THE LEVEL
OF SERVICE AND STUFF IS
GENERATED AT THE LIKE WE LOOK
AT THE PEAK HOURS IS THAT
RIGHT?
FROM THE STAFF PERSPECTIVE?
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
OK, SO AND AND THEN THOSE NETS
KIND OF THE WHAT WAS JUST
DISCUSSED WAS KIND OF THE NETS
DURING THE AM AND PM.
BUT ONE OF THE THINGS THAT I
WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT I'M
READING THIS RIGHT IS IN THE
COLUMN THAT'S A WEEKDAY TWENTY
FOUR HOURS.
SO NOT JUST NOT JUST AT THE AT
THE PEAK TIMES IT LOOKS LIKE
OVERALL A BANK USE IS MORE EVEN
THOUGH THE SQUARE FOOTAGE IS
ONE EIGHTH OF WHAT IT WAS
BEFORE IS THAT AM I LOOKING AT?
I MEAN THIS IS AN ACTIVITY TO
TO COMMISSIONER DISH'S POINT
WHERE THERE'S LOTS OF MORE
TURNOVER OF CARS THROUGHOUT THE
COURSE OF THE DAY.
IT'S NOT NECESSARILY YOU CAN
CORRECT ME IF I'M WRONG THAT
NECESSARILY IN THE PEAK TIMES
BECAUSE IT'S NOT LIKE EVERYBODY
STARTING WORK AT THE SAME TIME
THEY'RE COMING AND GOING
THROUGHOUT THE DAY.
IS THAT AM I READING THAT
RIGHT?
>> RIGHT.
SO, UM, AND I WILL I UNDERSTAND
THAT THAT'S LIKELY THE CASE
WITH THAT SPECIFIC COLUMN THERE
THAT YOU'RE PROBABLY READING
THAT RIGHT.
I WOULD WANT TO CONSULT WITH
OUR TRAFFIC ENGINEER JUST I'M
NOT THE EXPERT THERE
SPECIFICALLY BUT YEAH, THE
STANDARD IS TO LOOK AT THE PEAK
HOUR VOLUMES AND SO THAT'S MORE
OF WHAT I'M FAMILIAR WITH.
>> BUT YEAH, I CAN COME BACK TO
THAT.
>> WELL, AND I WOULD I WOULD
JUST POINT OUT THAT THIS IS
THIS IS THE STANDARD THIS IS
IT'S BEEN A WHILE ACTUALLY I
FEEL LIKE SINCE WE HAVE THE
COMMISSION TALKED ABOUT WHAT IS
OUR STANDARD THAT WE REGULATE
FOR BEING KIND OF WHAT IT IS
THAT WE'RE LOOKING AT.
ONE OF THE POINTS I THINK,
COMMISSIONER, THAT YOU JUST
BROUGHT UP THAT I WANTED TO
HIGHLIGHT BECAUSE WE TALKED
ABOUT BEFORE IS TYPICALLY I
MEAN THESE TRAFFIC STUDIES ARE
DONE FOR LOOKING AT THE
INTERSECTIONS AND THE LEVEL
OF SERVICE IN THE INTERSECTION
AND THEY DON'T ALWAYS TAKE INTO
ACCOUNT LIKE THE PEOPLE COMING
AND GOING AT THE DRIVEWAY.
LOOK AT THE SIDEWALK RIGHT IN
THE HEART HOW MANY TIMES THAT
DRIVEWAYS BEING USED IS THAT
FAIR FROM A STAFF PERSPECTIVE
MY OR AM I ARTICULATING KIND
OF WHAT HOW WE THINK ABOUT THE
TRAFFIC STUDIES IN THE CONTEXT
OF OUR DELIBERATIONS?
>> KIND OF OK SO JUST TO TO A
VERY HIGH LEVEL OF YOUR
REFERENCING THE CODE WE RELY ON
DATA THAT IS VERY INDUSTRY
ADAPTED.
>> IT'S THE I.T. MANUAL AND
BASED ON LAND USES THAT
PREDICTS A TRIP QUANTITY FOR
USE THAT WE HAVEN'T EXPERIENCED
YET AND IT'S BASED ON DATA FROM
AROUND THE UNITED STATES AND I
THINK PERHAPS EVEN LARGER AND
IT SORT OF AGGREGATES USE
EXPERIENCE OF THINGS LIKE BANKS
AND THINGS LIKE DRIVE THROUGH
THE NET AND IT ATTRIBUTES A
CERTAIN NUMBER OF TRIPS TO
THOSE IT TAKES INTO ACCOUNT HOW
THAT USE BECOMES A DESTINATION.
YOU KNOW THIS USE CAN CHANGING
FROM AN OFFICE WHICH MIGHT HAVE
WAS AS WAS MENTIONED MORE OF A
TURNOVER.
IT MIGHT BE MORE OF A
DESTINATION A BANK THAT'S NOT
TO SAY IT'S NOT A DESTINATION
FOR SOME BUT IT ALSO AT TIMES
IS GOING TO HAVE SORT OF PASS
BY TRAFFIC THAT THAT IS SORT
OF THE NATURE THAT'S ONE OF THE
REASONS THAT BANKS INVEST IN
CORRIDORS BECAUSE THEY WANT TO
CAPTURE PEOPLE DRIVING BY AND
SAY OH, WOULDN'T IT BE REALLY
GREAT FOR MY BANK TO BE THERE
IN THE FUTURE SO THAT I CAN
JUST TAKE CARE OF THINGS ON MY
WAY TO SCHOOL OR SUCH AND SUCH
SO THAT THAT IS A GATEWAY INTO
TRAFFIC STUDY OR NOT TRAFFIC
STUDY THEN DOES THOSE THINGS
WHERE IT LOOKS INTO MODELING
ONCE IT GOES OVER A THRESHOLD
THAT'S FIFTY PEAK TRIPS PER
HOUR ONCE IT EXCEEDS THAT WE
REQUIRE A TRAFFIC STUDY THAT IS
WHERE YOU'RE GETTING INTO
PLUGGING THAT PROJECTED TRIP
GENERATION INTO THE EXISTING
COMPUTER MODEL OF OUR NETWORK
AND THAT IN THAT CASE THE
TRAFFIC ENGINEER FOR THE
PETITIONER IS GOING TO WORK
WITH OUR TRAFFIC ENGINEERS.
THEY'RE GOING TO MAKE SURE THAT
THAT IS BEING INPUTTED
CORRECTLY.
THEY'RE GOING TO MAKE SURE THAT
THE ASSUMPTIONS ARE RIGHT.
IT'S GOING TO RELY ON TRAFFIC
COUNTS AND IT'S GOING TO
PROJECT THINGS LIKE OK WITH
THIS DEVELOPMENT THEN THE
AVERAGE WAIT TIME FOR A PERSON
AT THIS INTERSECTION IS GOING
TO BE INCREASED BY AND IT'S
TYPICALLY LIKE WAIT FOR SECONDS
OR BY EIGHT SECONDS OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
IN THIS CASE THAT TRIP
GENERATION DIDN'T GET TO THAT.
THAT SAID, YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
HOW IT RELATES TO DRIVEWAY'S
AND CONNECTIONS.
THAT REVIEW HAPPENS AS WELL.
THE TRANSPORTATION AND OUR
PROJECT ENGINEERS ARE WORKING
TO LOOK AT THE SITE LAYOUT JUST
FROM AND HOW IT INTERSECTS WITH
OUR RIGHT OF WAY.
HOW ARE THE VISIBILITY HOW HOW
OUR PEDESTRIAN ROUTES IMPACTED
BOTH PUBLIC RIGHTS AWAY AND
OTHERS SO I JUST WANT TO MAKE
SURE THAT THERE'S A DISTINCTION
EVEN THOUGH A TRAFFIC STUDY IS
NOT BEING DONE FOR A PROJECT
THAT FALLS BELOW THAT
THRESHOLD, WE PROFESSIONALS AT
THE STAFF WITH TECHNICAL
EXPERTIZE BEYOND CHRISTIANIZE
PLANNERS ARE LOOKING AT
SPECIFIC ASPECTS OF THE DETAILS
OF THOSE CUTS AND HOW THEY
INTERACT AND LOOKING AT THINGS
LIKE HOW THAT CURB GOING RATE
TO RELATE TO VISIBILITY OF THE
ROAD THAT IT'S GOING TO.
SO BOTH OF THOSE ARE HAPPENING
AND I JUST WANT TO YOU WERE
SORT OF AGGREGATING A FEW
THINGS AND THEY ACTUALLY
HAPPENED A LITTLE BIT
SEPARATELY.
>> THANK YOU FOR THAT FOR THE
CLARITY ON THAT.
AND PART OF THIS IS BECAUSE WE
HAVE SO MANY PEOPLE LISTENING
WHO MAYBE HAVE NOT HAD ALL
THESE CONVERSATIONS.
SO I THINK IT'S HELPFUL FOR
PEOPLE TO UNDERSTAND AND AND
THANK YOU FOR STAFF FOR
EXPLAINING KIND OF HOW THESE
THINGS ALL WORK TOGETHER LIKE
MAKING SURE THAT IN THIS CASE
BUS STOPS ARE PUT IT AWAY IN A
PLACE THAT IS NOT MAKING THINGS
UNSAFE FOR PEOPLE MAKING
TURNING MOVEMENTS, MAKING SURE
THAT THERE'S VISIBILITY ON THE
SIDEWALK, ALL OF THAT STUFF IS
THERE WHAT I IS IT ALSO FAIR TO
SAY THOUGH THAT WE DON'T
NECESSARILY LIKE BASED ON THIS
THERE COULDN'T BE MORE CARS
COMING IN AND OUT OF THE
DRIVEWAY AND THERE'S NOT
SOMETHING LIKE THAT'S NOT A
STANDARD THAT WE HAVE THAT
SAYING LIKE HEY, I MEAN FOR
THIS MOVEMENT THEMSELVES
THEY'RE SAFE BUT BUT AT LEAST
AS I'M LOOKING AT THIS, IT
LOOKS LIKE EVEN IN THE TWENTY
FOUR HOUR PERIOD THERE MAY BE
MORE THERE MAY BE MORE CARS
COMING AND GOING HERE.
YEAH, THERE COULD THERE COULD
BE.
BUT AGAIN WE ARE MAKING
ASSUMPTIONS BASED ON OUR
PROJECTION OF DATA WE CANNOT
APPROVE A PLAN THAT SAYS HEY,
YOU CAN BUILD THIS SO LONG AS
NO MORE THAN SEVENTY FIVE CARS
INTO THAT DRIVEWAY AT A TIME
PERIOD.
SO WE HAVE TO DO OUR BEST TO
PREDICT WHAT THAT IS.
YES, IT COULD RESULT IN
INCREASED TRAFFIC AND I WOULD
TAKE THAT A STEP FURTHER.
I I DON'T PROFESS TO KNOW THE
DETAILED HISTORY OF THIS
OFFICE.
WE HEARD SOME CALLERS WHO HAVE
EXPERIENCED THAT MY PERCEPTION
IS THAT OFFICE HAS NOT BEEN
USED TO ITS FULL CAPACITY FOR
SOME TIME AND SO EVEN THOUGH
THIS IS A SMALLER BUILDING WHEN
COMPARING SOME OF THAT DATA
THAT DATA IS SOMEWHAT BLYER TO
THE ACTUAL UTILIZATION OF THAT
OFFICE.
IT IS AN OFFICE SQUARE FOOTAGE
NUMBER THAT IS APPLIED FROM US
TRYING TO FIND MEASURABLE DATA
TO CONSIDER WHETHER THAT OFFICE
FRANKLY IS FULLY OCCUPIED OR
IT'S A TENTH OCCUPIED BECAUSE
THE POTENTIAL IS THERE.
SO THAT'S ANOTHER PIECE OF IT
WHEN YOU'RE COMPARING THIS,
THERE ARE SOME CHANGES INTO
BOTH THE INFO, THE PEAKS, BUT
YOU'RE ALSO TALKING ABOUT A LOT
SMALLER SQUARE FOOTAGE JUST FOR
THIS PORTION OF THE SITE.
>> SO IT'S COMPLEX THAT GETS TO
THE NEXT PART THAT I LIKE THE
NEXT CASE THAT I WAS MAKING.
AND SO JUST FOR PEOPLE TOO WHO
MAY NOT HAVE A STUDY LIKE IT'S
COMPARING IT'S SUGGESTING THAT
OVER THE THE TWENTY FOUR HOUR
PERIOD GENERAL OFFICE AT THE
SIZE OF WHAT'S CURRENTLY ON THE
SITE GENERATES FOUR HUNDRED AND
THIRTY SIX TRIPS WHERE AS FOR
THE BANK IT'S FOUR HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY SIX LOOK REALLY CLOSE
BUT BECAUSE THE THE BUILDING IS
SO MUCH SMALLER LIKE THAT'S
WHERE OVERALL THIS IS A VERY
TRIP INTENSIVE USE AND
PARTICULARLY LIKE I JUST THINK
THAT IS AN IMPORTANT THING TO
NAME HERE.
IT'S A WORK WE HAVE LESS SQUARE
FOOTAGE NOW BUT IT JUST TENDS
TO BE A YOUTH THAT GENERATES
MORE TRIPS.
AND SO THAT'S ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT I'M THINKING
OF PARTICULARLY IN THIS SITE.
I THINK THE OTHER THING THAT'S
RELATED TO KIND OF TRAFFIC
ASSOCIATED WITH THIS IS WAS
THERE ANY CONSIDERATION GIVEN
TO CLOSE GIVEN TO CLOSING THE
PRAIRIE ROAD STREET WHAT IS IT
EXIT ENTRANCE SINCE YOU HAVE
THE ONE OFF OF PLIMOTH.
>> SO I THINK
IT GOES BACK TO
ONE OF THE CRITERIA THAT MR.
LINNETT HAD LEONARD HAD ALLUDED
TO IS THAT YOU KNOW, THAT NOT
ONLY THE TRIPS AND THE
GENERATION RATE BUT THE CURB
CUTS THE LOCATIONS AND THINGS
LIKE MULTIPLE ACCESS POINTS FOR
EMERGENCY VEHICLES AND SAFETY.
SO I THINK THAT'S ANOTHER
REASON WHY THAT SECOND CURB CUT
WAS MAINTAINED AND THEN AGAIN
BACK TO THE OPTIONS.
>> RIGHT.
SO PUTTING EVERYTHING OUT INTO
ONE AND ONTO ONE ACCESS POINT
ON ONE STREET REALLY MAKES
THINGS A LOT MORE CONGESTED
WITH THE TWO ACCESS POINTS.
YES, PEOPLE MIGHT BE AND
PROBABLY ARE MORE INCLINED TO
COME OFF A PRAIRIE TO USE THE
DRIVE THROUGH BUT CERTAINLY
HAVE THE OPTION OF GOING OUT TO
PLYMOUTH RATHER THAN GOING BACK
OUT TO PRAIRIE.
>> SO THERE'S A FEW THINGS THAT
YEAH AND I I WAS SO I GUESS
THIS IS A QUESTION TO FIRST OFF
IF YOU KNOW MR. CHENG, IF
DURING CONVERSATION ARE THE TWO
CURB CUTS SOMETHING THAT FIRE
DEPARTMENT S REQUESTS LIKE HOW
DOES WHAT DOES THAT TELL US
WHAT THAT LOOKS LIKE?
I DIDN'T ASK THAT SPECIFIC
QUESTION TO THE FIRE MARSHAL AS
FAR AS ACCESS AROUND THE SITE.
I DID HAVE AN EXTENSIVE
CONVERSATION WITH THE
TRANSPORTATION ENGINEER TODAY
AND I THINK MR. LEONARD
ACTUALLY COVERED A LOT OF THE
ITEMS THAT I SPOKE WITH WITH
THE TRANSPORTATION ENGINEER AND
I'M GOING TO GENERALIZE THIS
BUT THE CURB CUT OFF PLYMOUTH
ROAD WILL OPERATE SIMILARLY AS
IT DOES NOW.
SO THEY HAVE MOVED IT ONE
HUNDRED FEET TO THE EAST.
HE SAYS THAT THAT'S GOING TO
OPERATE SIMILARLY.
HE ALSO STATED IT'S A FAIR
ASSUMPTION THAT THAT MORE
TRAFFIC WILL BE USING THE
PLYMOUTH ROAD ENTRANCE AND EXIT
AND THEY WILL THE PRAIRIE ROAD.
HE'S MAKING THAT ASSUMPTION IS
CONFIRMING THAT THAT IS
CORRECT.
THEY'LL BE USING PLYMOUTH ROAD
TRIP MORE OFTEN THAN THEY WOULD
ON THE PRAIRIE AS FAR AS THE
WEST SIDE OF THE SITE.
>> YEAH, WITHOUT KNOWING WHAT
THE HOURS OR WHAT TYPE OF USE
IT IS, IT'S IT'S REALLY
IMPOSSIBLE TO FIGURE OUT WHAT
KIND OF STUDY THAT YOU COULD DO
WITH THE VACANT SITE.
BUT HE SAID IT WOULD BE MUCH
MORE DETAILED ONCE THEY FIND
OUT WHAT TYPE OF USE IS BEING
PROPOSED ON THE WEST SIDE AND
THEN OH AND I THINK MAYBE THE
COMMISSIONER DISHES POINT I
THINK IT WAS ALREADY ANSWERED
REGARDING YOU KNOW, THE
QUESTION ABOUT REDUCTION ARE
PASSED BY.
>> HE SIMPLY SAID IF YOU WANT
TO USE KIND OF A PHRASE IT'S AN
ERRANT TRIP.
THIS ISN'T SOMETHING THAT YOU
ACTUALLY ARE GOING TO VISIT
SPECIFICALLY.
IT'S AN ERRANT YOU'RE GOING OUT
YOU'RE GOING GROCERY SHOPPING.
YOU DECIDE I WILL GO TO THE ATM
TO GET IT SO IT'S NOT AND HE
ESTIMATES THAT PROBABLY ONE
THIRD OF THE TRIPS ARE PROBABLY
ERRAND TRIPS.
>> I MEAN ESTIMATES I DON'T
HAVE IT IN WRITING BUT HE'S
STATING THAT YOU ONE THIRD
OF TRIPS ARE PROBABLY DRIVE BY
OR SOMEBODY WHO'S NOT
SPECIFICALLY THINKING ABOUT
GOING TO THE BANK AS THEIR SOLE
DESTINATION WHICH COMPORTS WITH
THAT PASS BY REDUCTIONS THAT
ARE SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT AND AM
INDIAN.
>> BUT OVERALL THAT SAME ONE
THIRD KIND OF THING OK, I MEAN
BECAUSE PATIKA REALLY I'M
THINKING ABOUT THE OTHER
KIRKCUDBRIGHT LIKE LIMITING THE
NUMBER OF OPPORTUNITIES TO
INTERSECT WITH PEDESTRIANS,
PARTICULARLY ONE THAT IN AN
AREA THAT'S ACROSS FROM A
RECREATION AREA LIKE I THINK
THAT THAT THAT WOULD MAYBE
ELIMINATE SOME OF THOSE
CONCERNS.
BUT I'M GOING TO PUT THIS IN A
BIGGER CONTEXT TO SAY THAT
HONESTLY THE OVERALL WELL IN IT
LIKE IT SEEMS MOVING IN THE
WRONG DIRECTION TOO GIVEN THAT
WE WE ARE BORROWING PLACE TO BE
INSTEAD LIKE ON LIKE HAVING
LESS BUILDING HERE.
AND SO AGAIN MAYBE THIS I'M
JUST TOO USED TO MAKING MYSELF
UNPOPULAR WITH EVERYBODY
BECAUSE I THINK THAT I MEAN
THIS IS A LOT THERE'S A LOT
OF VEHICLE TRIPS FOR THIS VERY
SMALL FOOTPRINT OF A THING AND
I THINK THAT HONESTLY SOMETHING
THAT HAS THAT HAS MORE
INTENSIVE USE OF THIS SPACE ON
THIS CORRIDOR WHICH MAY
ACTUALLY MEAN THAT THAT THERE'S
THERE MAY BE MORE TRAFFIC BUT
IF IT'S SERVING A BIGGER
FUNCTION LIKE IT MAY BE I'M NOT
I'M NOT ONE HUNDRED PERCENT
DRIVEN HERE LIKE BY THE TRIP
GENERATION IT'S MORE THAT THIS
IS REALLY, REALLY AUTO
INTENSIVE LIKE A LOT OF TRIPS
WERE VERY SMALL FOOTPRINT.
>> SO THAT'S ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT I'M THAT I'M GRAPPLING
WITH IN THIS SITUATION.
>> I WANT TO APPLAUD THE THE
DESIGNER AND STAFF FOR
LISTENING TO THINGS IN THE PAST
AND HAVING A WALK UP ATME
THAT'S REALLY LIKE AND THINKING
THROUGH WHAT COULD POTENTIALLY
MAKE THIS PALATABLE.
IT'S STILL LIKE VERY DIFFICULT
FOR ME AND I'LL RESERVE THINGS
LATER ON TO SAY WE HAVE TO FIX
OUR DRIVE THRU BECAUSE WE HAVE
THIS THIS IS LIKE GROUNDHOG DAY
OR WHATEVER THAT THING IS LIKE
ALL OVER AGAIN.
SO I DON'T ANYWAY THAT'S I'M
INTERESTED IN OTHER FOLKS
COMMENTS, COMMISSIONER, WHICH
UM I'M JUST GOING TO TELL YOU I
CAN'T SUPPORT THIS AS IT IS.
SO JUST TO PREFACE THAT SO YOU
KNOW WHERE I'M COMING FROM UM
FROM THAT STANDPOINT I DID HAVE
A QUESTION FOR STAFF IF THIS
WAS IN TICK ONE, WHAT WOULD THE
SETBACKS BE?
OH MYSTERIO SO GREAT.
>> DID YOU COME ON?
NO, SHE SHE'S BEEN HERE FOR BUT
I DIDN'T WANT TO ADDRESS HER
BECAUSE SHE'S FOR LATER UH I
THINK IT'S ZERO TO 10 FEET BUT
YEAH ZERO TO 10 ZERO TO FIFTEEN
TO NINE ZERO THAT'S AND WE'RE
AT WHAT ARE WHAT ARE WE AT THIS
WE HAD ENOUGH YOUNG THEN WE
JUST TOOK IT DOWN FROM SO
PLYMOUTH ROAD I GUESS ABOUT
THIRTY EIGHT FEET THIRTY EIGHT
FROM PRARIE IT'S ABOUT 19 FEET
YEAH.
>> SO THERE'S NO ACTIVATION
OF THIS SITE TO THE PEDESTRIAN
AND UM WE'VE HEARD FROM I THINK
LIKE FORTY TWO UM COMMENTORS
AND A MAJORITY OF THEM ARE
TALKING ABOUT THE FIFTEEN
MINUTE NEIGHBORHOOD THAT THEY
WALK AROUND HERE MAY BE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO DO SOMETHING
REALLY CREATIVE AND WHAT WE'RE
GETTING IS SOMETHING THAT FEELS
OUT OUT OF SCOPE WITH WHERE I
THINK THE CITY IS GOING.
AND SO I THINK COMMISSIONER LEE
TRIED TO ASK THIS SORT
OF EARLIER OF ROUND LIKE OR
MAYBE IT WASN'T COMMISSIONER
LEE.
MAYBE IT WAS SOMEONE ELSE WHO
OR MAYBE IT WAS A CHAIR GETTING
RANDALL.
THAT'S JUST LIKE HOW IS THIS
BEING ENVISIONED AND WHAT WE'RE
SEEING AT THE TABLE BECAUSE IT
JUST DOESN'T FEEL LIKE YOU'RE
PROPOSING SOMETHING THAT
MATCHES THE DIRECTION OF WHERE
WE'RE GOING IN THE CITY AND SO
THEN IT FEELS HARD TO SAY LIKE
I GET THAT IT'S BY RIGHT.
YOU BECAUSE OF THE OFFICE
EXCEPT FOR THE DRIVE THROUGH
AND SO MAYBE THAT'S THE PIECE
AND I AND I DON'T WANT TO MAKE
ASPERSIONS ABOUT WHY THIS IS
COMING.
I THINK A CALLER DID WHICH WAS
INTERESTING BUT IT JUST IT DOES
FEEL SORT OF ODD TO SEE THIS
DEVELOPMENT IN THIS WAY ON THIS
SITE.
>> UM, I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE
THAT MR. GARBER'S QUESTION GOT
ANSWERED ABOUT WHY YOU'RE NOT
INSTALLING GEOTHERMAL SO IF I
COULD REPEAT WHAT I THOUGHT I
HEARD WHICH WAS YOU TRIED IT,
IT DIDN'T WORK AND YOU DIDN'T
WANT TO DO IT AGAIN, IS THAT
CORRECT?
NO.
WE'LL SEE.
THAT'S WHAT I WAS TRYING TO
DISTINGUISH BECAUSE IT'S
ACTUALLY NOT USEFUL TO NOT DO
GEOTHERMAL WITH HEAT PUMPS AND
SO DID YOU DO YOUR PREVIOUS
DEVELOPMENT WAS HEAT PUMPS
WITHOUT GEOTHERMAL?
OH SO THEY WERE OH OK.
ALL RIGHT.
SO THEN THEN DID MR. GARBER'S
QUESTION IT ANSWERED THEN ABOUT
GEOTHERMAL HIS QUESTION CAN IT
BE REPEATED I'M NOT QUITE SURE
I KNOW WHERE I MEAN IF YOUR
COME ON MR. GARBER IF HE WOULD
THANK YOU.
MY QUESTION WAS YOU HAVE A
FORTY EIGHT FOOT SQUARE FOOT
SINGLE STOREY BUILDING ON ONE
POINT SEVENTY THREE ACRE LOT.
YOU'RE A CONTRACTOR.
JOVIC HAS EXPERIENCED
SUCCESSFUL EXPERIENCE PUTTING
IN GEOTHERMAL SYSTEMS.
WHY NOT?
AND I THINK WHAT I HEARD YOU
SAY IS IT'S JUST A PREFERENCE
AT THIS POINT LIKE THIS WAS A
CHOICE THAT YOU'RE MAKING.
>> I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE
THAT'S ALL.
YEAH, I I DON'T KNOW THAT IT'S
CLEARLY BEEN DECIDED THAT WE
WOULDN'T DO IT SO I BELIEVE
THAT HIS QUESTION HAS BEEN
ANSWERED.
OK, WE HAVE DONE IT AT TWO
OTHER LOCATIONS BUT IT DIDN'T
WORK AND SO IT WHY DO YOU WANT
TO GO BACK TO CORRECT.
>> SO WE WOULD HAVE TO GO AND
REALLY EVALUATE THE OPERATION
OF THEM TODAY AND SO THAT'S
ANOTHER THING THAT JUST FEELS
DISCORDANT WITH WHAT WE'RE
SEEING AT THE TABLE.
WE'RE WE'RE SEEING ALL ELECTRIC
DEVELOPMENTS THAT ARE WE JUST
SAW WHAT WAS IT A 12 STORY ALL
ELECTRIC DEVELOPMENT WHICH WE
DIDN'T HAVE AGREEMENT ABOUT BUT
AT LEAST THEY CAME TO THE TABLE
AND SAID
WE'RE GOING TO DO ALL
ELECTRIC RIGHT.
AND AND WE'VE HAD THE MAPLE
DEVELOPMENT WAS ALL ELECTRIC.
WE HAD ONE STADIUM THAT WAS ALL
ELECTRIC.
SO AGAIN, THIS JUST FEELS VERY
DISCORDANT WITH WHERE WE ARE IN
THE CITY AND AND THE INITIAL
ANSWER JUST I DON'T KNOW, RUB
ME THE WRONG WAY.
>> IT'S JUST LIKE THAT'S OUR
PREROGATIVE KIND OF THING AND I
GUESS IT IS BUT IT DOESN'T MAKE
IT EASY FOR US TO SIT HERE
LOOKING AT A DEVELOPMENT THAT'S
GOING TO BE HERE FOR 50 TO 100
YEARS AND SAY YES, LET'S JUST
GO AHEAD AND APPROVE THAT SO I
DON'T KNOW IF IT IF YOU WANT TO
ADDRESS THAT BUT I JUST WANT TO
DISCLOSE TO YOU THAT AT LEAST
THIS IS A PART OF WHY I CAN'T
SUPPORT WHAT I'M SEEING AT THE
TABLE LIKE LOOKS LIKE THERE'S
THREE ROWS OF SOLAR YOU HAVE
ALL THAT SURFACE AREA TO PUT
SOLAR ED TO SORT DO THAT.
THAT WOULD HAVE BEEN GREAT.
THERE COULD HAVE BEEN SOME
OTHER INNOVATIVE USES THERE BUT
I DON'T KNOW MAYBE IT'S A
COOKIE CUTTER TYPE THING.
I JUST DON'T KNOW AND I'M
TRYING TO UNDERSTAND LIKE GIVE
US YOUR PITCH.
YOU'RE HERE LIKE HITS US SO TO
APPROVE A PART OF IT IS OUR
BRAND YOUR YOUR YOU'RE
ABSOLUTELY CORRECT IN THAT AND
A BIG PORTION OF OUR BRAND IS
THE THE ROUGH IN THE BLUE
SYSTEM.
SO I ASSUME MAYBE I SHOULDN'T
BUT YOU'VE PROBABLY SEEN OUR
OTHER LOCATIONS AROUND TOWN AND
THEY LOOK VERY SIMILAR.
SO WHEN WHEN WE START BUILDING
ON OR WHEN JESTED DOES MOST
PEOPLE KNOW THAT IT'S THE UMC
OR CREDIT UNION BECAUSE THERE
ARE SPECIFIC CHARACTERISTICS
AND DESIGN ASPECTS OF IT THAT
REFLECT THE BRAND THAT WE HAVE
CREATED AND PART OF IT IS
SIGNIFICANTLY IN THE ROOFING
DESIGN OF IT IN THE BLUE ROOF
AND IN THE PITCH OF IT.
>> SO OK, SO THAT'S REALLY I
MEAN JUST TO BE QUITE HONEST
WITH YOU THAT'S REALLY WHAT
THAT OH LIKE COMMISSIONER LEE
SAID, IT'S REALLY HELPFUL FOR
US TO UNDERSTAND WHY YOU'RE
MAKING SOME OF THE DECISIONS
WITH REGARD TO THIS.
SO IN TWENTY FOURTEEN MR.
LEONARD, THE PLANNING
COMMISSION HAD THIS
CONVERSATION ABOUT DRIVE
THROUGH.
THEY SEEMED TO MOVE IT INTO A
SPECIAL USE EXCEPTION.
WHAT WAS THERE ANY OTHER
CONTEXT THAT YOU HAVE TO GIVE
US?
WAS THERE LIKE A SENSE OF HEY,
WE WANT TO KICK THIS DOWN THE
ROAD BECAUSE THE PLAN WAS
COMING BEFORE COVID AND SO
WE'RE GOING TO BE ABLE TO GET
RID OF THESE DRIVE THROUGH
THROUGH THAT METHOD LIKE WHY IS
IT THAT THIS HAS TO BE THIS
STOP HERE BECAUSE IT DOESN'T
FEEL LIKE A PART OF OUR FUTURE
BUT WE'RE HAVING TO HAVE THIS
STOP AND AND TO ME PERSONALLY
THIS JUST BUILDS HARMFUL TO THE
DEVELOPER BECAUSE THEY SPEND
ALL THIS TIME AND MONEY
BUILDING A SITE DOING ALL THIS
WORK AND THEN THEY GET TO THE
TABLE AND THE FOLKS AT THE
TABLE ARE LIKE YOU'RE PUTTING
ON A DRIVE THROUGH.
WE'RE NOT GOING TO APPROVE A
DRIVE THROUGH AND AND I JUST
FEEL LIKE IT'S A WASTE
OF EVERYBODY'S TIME AND SO I'M
JUST CONFUSED AS TO LIKE HOW WE
ARE HERE AT THE TABLE HAVING
THIS CONVERSATION IN THIS WAY
AND MAYBE THAT'S JUST TO DIRECT
AND IF I'M FROM THE EAST COAST
SO YOU CAN BLAME THAT I'M NOT
BEING MIDWESTERN NICE TONIGHT
IT'S NOT THE EAST SIDE OR THE
WEST AS IT WERE.
TWENTY FOURTEEN I HONESTLY
DON'T KNOW I DON'T KNOW IF
PLANNERS CHANG OR DUILIO HAVE
THAT BACKGROUND.
THAT WAS PRIOR TO MY TIME HERE.
THAT WAS AN INCREMENTAL STEP
TOWARDS TRYING TO MOVE OUR
COMMUNITY AND RECOGNIZING THAT
WE WANT TO MOVE TOWARDS MORE
TRANSPORTATION OPTIONS.
I WOULD SPECULATE AT THE TIME
IT WAS NOT A POLICY GOAL TO
ELIMINATE THEM.
IT WAS JUST AS ARE MANIFESTED
IN OUR CODE TODAY THAT IT WAS
TO RAISE ATTENTION TO THEM TO
MAKE SURE THAT THEY'RE
FUNCTIONING IN A GOOD WAY TO
MAKE SURE THAT THEY ARE NOT
CREATING ADVERSE CONFLICT
POINTS MORE THAN NECESSARY.
TIME HAS PASSED AT THIS TABLE
OVER THE LAST COUPLE OF YEARS.
YOU HAVE APPROVED DRIVE THROUGH
YOU'VE APPROVED DRIVERS ON THIS
CORRIDOR.
WE HAVE A CODE THAT PERMITS
DRIVERS.
WE FRANKLY ADVISE I WAS NOT IN
EVERY CONVERSATION BETWEEN CITY
PLANNER CHANGAN THIS PRODUCT
BUT I'M CONFIDENT THAT THEY
WERE MADE AWARE THAT THE
PLANNING COMMISSION DOESN'T
LOOK AT THESE FAVORABLY.
WE THINK IT'S A TOUGH ROAD,
HOWEVER, WITH ALL DUE RESPECT
TO THE COMMISSION, IT'S A FREE
COUNTRY.
PEOPLE CAN ASK FOR WHATEVER IS
OUR CODE AND TO YOUR POINT IT'S
BECAUSE WE PRIORITIZED OTHER
CHANGES TO OUR CODE FIRST IN NO
I THANK YOU.
I APPRECIATE THAT IT'S JUST
HELPFUL AND I THINK I THE ONLY
CORRECTION I WOULD MAKE TO THE
COMMENT THAT I MADE EARLIER IS
SINCE I'VE BEEN AT THE TABLE WE
HAVEN'T APPROVED A DRIVE
THROUGH SO UM SO WE CAN BOTH
RIDE THEN COMMISSIONER LEE,
THANK YOU.
JUST STEPPING IS STEPPING BACK
A LITTLE BIT.
I DO THINK IT'S A BIT OF A
SLIPPERY TO SAY BECAUSE THIS
WILL BE A DIFFERENT ZONE AT A
FUTURE TIME.
I THINK WE NEED TO EVALUATE ON
THE CURRENT ZONE THAT IT IS
BECAUSE UNTIL IT GOES THROUGH
THE PROCEDURAL DUE PROCESS
OF GOING THROUGH ALL THOSE
STEPS IT IS STILL ZONED OFFICE
.
SO BASED ON THE FORM BASED ON
THE MENSCHEL STANDARDS AND
BASED ON THE PERMITTED USE THIS
COMPLIES AND THERE IS THE
PARKING IS COMPLIES OF FOUR
POINT SIX SPOTS PER THOUSAND
THE MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE IS
ACTUALLY THE CAP IS FIVE POINT
FIFTY FIVE SPACES THE SPOT PER
HUNDRED EIGHTY SQUARE FEET.
SO I DO WANT TO BE CAREFUL NOW
THE POINT OF MY CONCERN ABOUT
THE DRIVE THRU IS AND THE POINT
OF CONFLICT IS THAT THERE'S A
BUS STATION THAT IS KIND
OF RIGHT AT THE FRONT UNPLUMBED
THAT AND SO I THINK ABOUT THE
FOLKS THAT WILL GET OFF THE BUS
AND START WALKING INTO THAT
NEIGHBORHOOD.
RIGHT.
I TRY TO THINK ABOUT THAT
PEDESTRIAN EXPERIENCE AND THAT
THOROUGHFARE AND SO THAT THAT
WAS KIND OF THE CORE POINT
ISN'T NECESSARILY THIS AND THE
FACT IS REGARDLESS OF THE FACT
THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE DOES
PROVIDE US WITH THE ABILITY TO
SIMPLY SAY HEY, WE BELIEVE THIS
FITS OR DOESN'T FIT WITH THE
CHARACTER OF THIS PARTICULAR
NEIGHBORHOOD.
SO JUST YOU KNOW, I DO WANT TO
CAUTION ABOUT, YOU KNOW, CITING
WHAT IT MAY BE IN THE FUTURE.
THAT BEING SAID, WE ARE
SUPPOSED TO BE GOOD STEWARDS
AND I FRANKLY PERSONALLY HAVE A
LITTLE BIT TORN BECAUSE THE
MATERIALITY THE OVERALL
ARCHITECTURE ALL DUE RESPECT, I
THINK IT WAS ALAN DOWL THAT
CONSTRUCTED THIS.
I DO THINK THAT THIS IS A
HIGHER QUALITY BUILDING THAN
WHAT WE WOULD EXPECT TO SEE
CONTINUING WITH TWENTY NINE
TWENTY NINE.
HOWEVER IT IS THOSE CONFLICT
POINTS THE CONTINUED
PERPETUATION OF AUTO CENTRIC
RELIANCE ALTHOUGH AND I TOTALLY
HEAR YOU I THINK IT'S ALSO VERY
IMPORTANT FOR US TO CONSIDER
FOLKS THAT ARE SICK, HAVE COVID
OR HAVE KIDS OR HAVE WALK UP
YOU KNOW BASICALLY SOME LEVEL
OF DISABILITY THAT MAKES IT
DIFFICULT FOR THEM TO WALK TO A
BANK.
SO I DO WANT TO SAY WE SHOULD
CONSIDER ALL THOSE THINGS AND
IT WAS THE POINT THAT SAYING
WHAT IT MAY BE IN THE FUTURE IS
NOT NECESSARILY THE BEST
RELION.
>> SO BUT RIGHT NOW AS A GROUP
WE HAVE TO DECIDE WHETHER THIS
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE THE DRIVE
THRU IS APPROPRIATE FOR THIS
PARTICULAR INTERSECTION.
>> THANKS COMMISSIONER SERVAIS.
I'LL TAKE THAT ONE ENCOUNTER
BECAUSE I ABSOLUTELY DO BELIEVE
AND VOTED ON THE LAST ONE BASED
ON TSAY ONE COMING AT WEST
STADIUM DENIED THE DRIVE THRU
BECAUSE THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION
USE HAS FIVE POINTS TO CONSIDER
THE CONTEXT OF WHAT OUR
COMMUNITY GOALS ARE AND IS THIS
IN THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION?
DOES IT DESERVE AN EXCEPTION TO
BE HERE BASED ON OUR COMMUNITY
GOALS WHICH ARE DRAFTED AROUND
OUR COMPREHENSIVE PLAN?
OUR VISION DOCUMENTS WHICH ARE
THE SAME DOCUMENTS THAT GUIDE
THE ADOPTION T.C. ONE FOR
TRANSIT CORRIDORS THAT IS
PROJECTED AND DISCUSSED AND
OUTLINED TO BE HERE.
SO I THINK THAT THOSE THINGS
ABSOLUTELY CORRELATE AND WE
CAN'T LIVE IN THE NOW OR THE
PAST.
>> WE NEED TO MAKE DECISIONS
FOR THE FUTURE AND IDLING CARS
AND A DENSITY OF ONE ONE CAR
TRIP PER 10 SQUARE FEET IS NOT
THE FUTURE.
SO I MEAN I CAN'T I'LL JUST
MOVE BEYOND THAT.
BUT I JUST NEEDED TO ADDRESS
THAT.
I'M ACTUALLY GOING TO STAND
VERY MUCH ON THE OTHER SIDE
OF THAT.
IT'S HARD FOR ME TO FIND PRICE
POINTS IN THIS PROJECT.
>> I REALLY GOOD JOB EVERYBODY
FOR FINDING SOMETHING.
>> OH BUT THE DRIVE THRU
ARGUMENTS WERE CONVENIENCE TO
YOUR CUSTOMERS AND THEIR
CHOICE.
NOTHING ABOUT THAT DISCUSSION
TALKED ABOUT THE BENEFITS THE
COMMUNITY WE ARE TRYING TO MAKE
DECISIONS FOR THE COMMUNITY.
NOTHING THAT I HEARD IN THAT
JUSTIFICATION SHOWED THAT
HAVING A DRIVE THRU WAS A
BENEFIT TO THE COMMUNITY THAT
THAT WAS THE EXCEPTION THAT WE
NEEDED TO MAKE WITH THIS
PROJECT A FEW THINGS THE
INGRESS EGRESS IF YOU GO BACK
TO TRAFFIC TWENTY TWO AND A
HALF INCHES I THINK THAT'S A
TYPO BUT IT SHOWS THE LACK
OF THOROUGHNESS OF THIS PROJECT
BOTH IN UNDERSTANDING COMMUNITY
GOALS AND ENGINEERING.
>> SO WE HAVE TWENTY TWO AND A
HALF INCHES FEET OF INGRESS,
EGRESS ON THE EASTERN SIDE
OF THE PARCEL.
SO THE IDEA IS THAT WE DO NOT
HAVE A CURB CUT FOR PARCEL TO
PARCEL TO IF THE REASONING IS
SIMILAR TO THIS PARCEL MAY NEED
TO CURB CUTS BUT THE INGRESS
EGRESS DOES NOT EXTEND TO THE
PRAIRIE KAPUTT.
SO IF WE'RE TALKING ABOUT HOW
TRASH AND FIRE TRUCKS NEED TO
MOVE THAT INGRESS EGRESS NEEDS
TO CONTINUE ALL THE WAY AROUND
SO IT'S SHORT SIGHTED THAT
PARCEL IF WE DO IF WE DO REZONE
TO TAKE ONE PARCEL TO
NOW HAS A
CONFLICTING LAND USE SANDWICHED
BETWEEN TWO DRIVE THRU
BUILDINGS.
SO WE HAVE 15 FOOT CONFLICTING
LAND USE ON THE EAST SIDE AND
THE WEST SIDE.
WE'VE GOT A 30 FOOT BUFFER IN
THE BACK PLUS YOU'VE ALREADY
OVERLAID A TEN FOOT EASEMENT
MAINTENANCE SO THAT ADDS UP TO
40 FEET ALONG A NARROW PARCEL
THAT IS UNDEVELOPED DEVELOPABLE
IF WE PRIORITIZE RESIDENTIAL
USE I'D RATHER SEE THAT FOR
THIS WHOLE PARCEL.
>> THIS PARCEL IS PERFECTLY
SUITED FOR ONE AND SPECIFICALLY
FOR MIXED USE PROJECT OF OVER
TWO HUNDRED THOUSAND SQUARE
FEET ONE HUNDRED SQUARE FOOT,
ONE HUNDRED SPACES OF GROUND
FLOOR PARKING WITH COMMERCIAL
ON THE CORNER AND CAN MAKE TWO
HUNDRED EIGHT HUNDRED SQUARE
FOOT TWO BEDROOM UNITS.
I DREW THIS THING IT TOOK ME
THIRTY MINUTES TO NOT TAKE A
LOT OF EFFORT TO SAY WHAT DOES
IT WHAT WOULD THIS COMMUNITY
LOOK LIKE IF I PAID ATTENTION
TO COMMUNITY GOALS AND COULD
MAKE ME FIT IN THE GROUND AND
THEN MAYBE COULD THE
DRIVESAVERS GO AND LIKE THROUGH
THAT COVERED PARKING CAN WE DO
MORE?
BUT NONE OF THAT HAPPENED SO
I'M JUST SEEING A VERY
DIFFICULT POINT WHERE I VOTED
THIS DOWN BEFORE.
IT'S CLEAR I'M GOING TO THIS
DOWN AGAIN BASED ON OUR GOALS
ARE PUBLISHED GOALS THAT WE'VE
ADOPTED FOR YEARS AND THAT IT
DOESN'T DESERVE AN EXCEPTION.
THIS IS NOT EXCEPTIONAL AND I
REALLY LOOK FORWARD TO SEEING
USES THAT BENEFIT THE COMMUNITY
ON THE SITE
NERDISH SO THIS IS
I THINK MY SECOND SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE CASE AND SO AGAIN
,TO BE HONEST I'M NOT CLEAR ON
THE CRITERIA AND I DO HAVE THE
UDC PULLED UP AND I READ ALL
THE POINTS BUT I WONDER IF
THOSE WOULD BE IF SOMEONE COULD
PUT THEM IN OTHER WORDS THEN
THERE THEN ARE IN THE UDC I CAN
TRY IT IS AS FAR AS
COMMISSIONER SAUVé INDICATED IT
IS BY DEFINITION SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USES WARRANT AN
ADDITIONAL LEVEL OF REVIEW BY
THE PLANNING COMMISSION SUBJECT
TO HIS CRITERIA.
SO TO START THESE I I WOULD
GENERALLY SAY THESE ARE NOT
BLACK AND WHITE ANSWERS.
THESE ARE GREAT ANSWERS.
THEY MAY BE BLACK AND WHITE TO
YOU ON ONE SIDE OR THE OTHER
BUT I DON'T THINK THAT THEY ARE
DATA DRIVEN ANSWERS THE WAY
SITE IS IS THE BUILDING MEETING
THE SET BACK IS THE BUILDING
PROVIDING THE APPROPRIATE CURB
CUT WIDTH IS THE BUILDING
MEETING THE HEIGHT REQUIREMENT
.
SO WITH THAT THE STANDARDS THAT
ARE PROPOSED ARE IS IT
APPROPRIATE TO ITS LOCATION AND
THIS IS WHY A SPECIAL EXCEPTION
USES A RUN WITH THE LAND YOU
MIGHT BECAUSE THIS IS ONLY YOUR
SECOND OTHER COMMISSIONERS CAN
PROBABLY TELL YOU OF OVER THE
LAST FIVE YEARS NOW A GREAT
QUANTITY OF MARIJUANA RELATED
USES THAT WERE ALL CONFIGURED
AS A SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES AND
BECAUSE OF THE BECAUSE OF THE
CONVERGENCE OF THE CAP ON THE
TOTAL NUMBER OF THOSE AND THE
REQUIREMENT OF SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USES AT A STAFF LEVEL
WE GET A LOT OF INQUIRIES
SAYING HEY I HAVE ONE OF THESE
CAN I MOVE IT SOMEWHERE ELSE?
AND THE ANSWER IS NO BECAUSE
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USES
CONSIDERING A PROPOSED USE IN
THE CONTEXT OF ITS VERY
SPECIFIC SITE ITS SURROUNDING
ITS ENVIRONS IN THIS CASE IS
THIS PROPOSED IN THE CASE WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT A DRIVE THROUGH
IS IT CONSISTENT WITH THE
GENERAL OBJECTIVES OF THE
CITY'S MASTER PLAN IS WHAT OUR
WHAT OUR UDC SAYS THERE WAS
REFERENCE HERE TO OTHER GOALS
AND VISIONS.
I WOULD URGE THE PLANNING
COMMISSION TO MEASURE IT
AGAINST OUR ADOPTED
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN THAT IS OUR
GUIDING POLICY DOCUMENT ON
MAKING LAND USE DOCUMENTS.
WILL IT BE DESIGNED,
CONSTRUCTED, OPERATED AND
MAINTAIN AND METROS COMPATIBLE
WITH THE CHARACTER OF THE
GENERAL VICINITY THAT IS A
JUDGMENT.
OBVIOUSLY STAFF HAS CONCLUDED
THAT IT IS THAT AN OFFICE TO A
BANK IS A SIMILAR USE.
THIS IS A AREA WHERE YOU HAVE A
DIFFERENT CHARACTER OF LAND USE
ON THE PLIMOTH CORRIDOR THAN
YOU DO SOME OF THE PROPERTY
BEHIND WHICH IS PRIMARILY
RESIDENTIAL.
THAT ANSWER COULD BE DIFFERENT
SAYING THAT WE DON'T THINK
OFFICE AND BANKS ARE
APPROPRIATE FOR PLIMOTH IT
SHOULD BE SOMETHING ELSE.
IS IT CONSISTENT WITH THE
GENERAL CHARACTER OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD CONSIDERING
POPULATION DENSITY DESIGN SCALE
IN BULK AND INTENSITY
OF CHARACTER?
I THINK YOU'RE GETTING SOME
OF THIS WITH THE QUESTIONS
AROUND TRAFFIC.
YOU'RE GETTING TO SOME OF THIS
WITH QUESTIONS ABOUT HOW DOES
IT RELATE TO THE STREET, WHAT
PRESENCE WE HEARD TERMS ABOUT
PRESENCE.
SO THE SITE IS BEING DESIGNED
IN A WAY THAT IS CONSISTENT
WITH THE OFFICE DISTRICT WHICH
IS NOT A PEDESTRIAN ORIENTED
DISTRICT.
IT IS A SUBURBAN DISTRICT.
IT IS BIGGER SETBACKS AND SO
THAT HAS COSTS TO THE SIDEWALK
ITS RELATIONSHIP BUT THAT IS
WHAT IT IS ZONE TODAY.
SO THOSE ARE SOME MEASURABLE
YES NO.
DOES IT SATISFY THIS OR NOT?
WILL IT BE DETRIMENTAL TO THE
USE OR OF NEIGHBORING PROPERTY
OR THE NEIGHBORHOOD AREA IN
GENERAL?
AGAIN, THIS IS THIS IS APPLYING
WHAT THAT NEIGHBORHOOD IS.
DOES THIS PROPOSED USE FIT
THERE?
I THINK IT'S CONSISTENT.
WE HAVE A LOT OF INSTANCES
AGAIN FROM THE STAFF
PERSPECTIVE WE HAVE A LOT
OF INSTANCES OF THESE TYPE
OF USES ALONG CORER WHERE YOU
HAVE RESIDENTIAL USES PUTTING
IT.
WE HAVE A LOT OF LAND USE
PATTERN THROUGHOUT THE CITY
THAT FOLLOWS THIS PLANNING
COMMISSION IN THIS CASE CAN
DEFINITELY CONCLUDE NO, IT'S
NOT COMPATIBLE BUT FROM A STAFF
PERSPECTIVE I CAN SAY THAT IT'S
AT LEAST CONSISTENT WITH A LOT
OF OTHER EXAMPLES THROUGHOUT
OUR COMMUNITY AND A LOT
OF DIFFERENT QUARTERS.
I WILL NOT HAVE A DETRIMENTAL
EFFECT ON THE NATURAL
ENVIRONMENT GENERALLY I WOULD
SAY NO.
WE HAVE THIS PROPOSED SITE PLAN
IS MEETING THE
CODE REQUIREMENTS THAT WE
STIPULATE THAT ANSWER THAT
THINGS LIKE STORMWATER, THINGS
LIKE HOW YOU DEAL WITH
LANDSCAPING, THINGS WITH OPEN
SPACE AND THE LIKE.
AGAIN FROM A SIPKIN PERSPECTIVE
YOU ANYBODY AT FAULT WITH OUR
CODES?
I'M SURE THAT THERE ARE THOSE
AT THE TABLE WHO HAVE FOLLOWED
THOSE CODES AT THE SITE PLAN IS
OUR PROVISIONS FOR SITE POINT
OF VIEW.
THAT'S HOW WE DEFINE WHETHER OR
NOT YOU ARE SATISFIED THAT
STANDARD AKIN TO WE DON'T
APPROVE A PLAN BECAUSE WE FEEL
LIKE IT WON'T CREATE A HARM TO
PUBLIC SAFETY WELFARE.
WE ENACT ORDINANCES THAT
STIPULATE HOW WE MEASURE THAT
AND IF YOU MEET THOSE
ORDINANCES THAT'S HOW WE
DETERMINE THAT YOU ARE NOT
ADVERSELY IMPACTING PUBLIC
WELFARE.
>> I FEEL LIKE I'M JUST
RESTATING THEM AND NOT ACTUALLY
PUTTING THEM IN LAYMAN'S TERMS
.
>> BUT THAT'S WHAT THAT'S WHAT
I DO IN MY DAY JOB IS RESTATE
THINGS OVER AND OVER AND ON THE
THIRD TIME THEY USUALLY IN SO
THAT WAS VERY HELPFUL.
>> I WILL SAY THAT UM I AM I AM
TAKEN ABACK BY THE ONE THIRD
OF THE TRIPS ARE ERRAND TRIPS.
>> THAT IS WORRISOME TO ME
ESPECIALLY BECAUSE OF THE
PROXIMITY OF THIS UH UH THIS
SITE TO A RECREATIONAL AREA AND
TO SCHOOLS.
UM, I AM I AM NOT PERSUADED BY
THE ANSWERS ABOUT
ELECTRIFICATION UM BUT I DON'T
YEAH.
SO THAT'S THAT'S WHAT'S SITTING
HARD FOR ME RIGHT NOW AND I'M
TRYING NOT TO TAKE A STAND ON
WHETHER THIS MEETS THE ZONING
THAT I WISH HAD ALREADY BEEN
ENACTED HERE OR I'M TRYING NOT
TO TAKE A STAND ON THAT.
UM, I COULD BUT I'M NOT GOING
TO DO THAT.
I'M TRYING TO THINK IT THROUGH
WITHOUT THAT.
COMMISSIONER LEIGH, THANK YOU.
AND JUST IN QUICK RESPONSE TO
COMMISSIONER SILVER, I DO THINK
THAT IT'S VERY IMPORTANT FOR US
TO BE ABLE TO EXPRESS DISSENT
OR DISAGREEMENT IN A RESPECTFUL
MANNER.
>> SO THANK YOU.
I REALLY APPRECIATE YOUR
COMMENTS AND I THINK IT'S AGAIN
VERY IMPORTANT FOR US TO BE
ABLE TO LISTEN AND TO
UNDERSTAND WHERE EVERYONE'S
COMING FROM.
AND AS I AS I HEARD THAT I I I
STILL PERSONALLY MAINTAIN THAT
THERE IS SOME CONCERN THAT I
HAVE BY SAYING THE CORRIDOR IS
GOING TO BE SUCH WITHOUT HAVING
GONE THROUGH SUCH DUE PROCESS.
>> THAT BEING SAID, I ALSO WHEN
I LOOK AT THESE SPECIAL
EXCEPTION CRITERIA CONSISTENT
WITH THE GENERAL OBJECTIVES
OF THE CITY'S COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN THE VISION ZERO AND AGAIN
THE COMMENT THAT I MADE
PARTICULARLY ABOUT THE BUS STOP
AND ITS POTENTIAL CONFLICT
AREAS, I FIND A LITTLE BIT
OF CONCERN THERE.
THE LAND USE PLAN FROM 2009 IS
PROBABLY GOING TO DESIGNATE
THIS AREA AS OFFICE.
SO I DON'T I DON'T THINK THAT
THAT'S CURRENTLY BEEN UPDATED.
I KNOW IT'S IN THE PROCESS
INHERENT WITHIN BUT IT'S THE
VISION ZERO WHICH I THINK IS
THE MOST RECENT ONE ABOUT AGAIN
MINIMIZING HAVING ZERO
FATALITIES REALLY AND
INCREASING SAFETY FOR TRANSPORT
THAT I DO FIND THIS ONE.
BUT THAT'S POINT NUMBER ONE
DESIGNED CONSTRUCTED OPERATING
MAINTAINED IN THE MANNER THAT'S
COMPATIBLE WITH EXISTING AND
PLANNED CHARACTER OF THE
GENERAL VICINITY.
AND AGAIN, THAT'S THAT'S WHERE
THE CONTEXT AND I THINK
YOURSELF.
YOU TALKED VERY SPECIFICALLY
ABOUT CONTEXT AND IT'S THE IT'S
THE SPECULATION OR I GUESS IT'S
THE TEMPORAL CONTEXT OF SAYING
IN THE FUTURE SHALL BE THIS
THAT I'M HAVING TROUBLE
OF SCRATCHING MY MIND AROUND
BUT
THERE IS ALSO THE
GEOGRAPHICAL AND PHYSICAL
CONTEXT WHILE ON THE SOUTH SIDE
WITH THEM CITY AND THINGS
OF THAT NATURE THERE IS THERE
ACTUALLY IS JUST A GENERAL
SENSE OF AUTO CENTRIC RESEARCH
ESSENTIALLY THAT BEING SAID TO
THE NORTH THERE IS A
NEIGHBORHOOD, THERE IS A POOL
AND MOSTLY I THINK THAT A LOT
OF FOLKS WOULD BE AGAIN THIS IS
HYPOTHESIZING I'VE BEEN TO THAT
POOL BEFORE BUT I THINK I DROVE
SO BUT THAT TO BE SAID DESIGN
CONSTRUCTED OPERATED MAINTAIN
IN A MANNER THAT'S COMPATIBLE
WITH EXISTING CHARACTER OF THE
GENERAL INSANITY.
I THINK THAT NORTH AREA AND THE
INTENSITY THAT'S WHERE I'M
TRYING TO SEE IF THERE'S
COMPATIBILITY IN THE OVERALL
KIND OF CONTINUITY OTHER URBAN
FORM TO HAVE THREE DRIVE
THROUGH THAT ARE TOTALLY
VISIBLE IN THAT EASTERN FRONT.
I HAD SOME CONCERNS WITH
DETRIMENTAL TO USE PEACEFUL
ENJOYMENT AND I'M JUST GOING
THROUGH AGAIN THINKING THROUGH.
SO BUT THE CORE POINT THAT I
WAS TRYING TO MAKE IS IT'S SO
IMPORTANT FOR US TO KNOW, LEARN
AND BETTER BETTER DISAGREE WITH
OTHERS GRACEFULLY.
AND SO I DO APPRECIATE YOUR
COMMENTS AND I AND I HEAR THEM
AND I'M STILL PROCESSING.
>> THANK YOU.
I APPRECIATE THAT.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
I CAN JUST SAY THAT I AM VERY
CURIOUS TO HEAR WHAT YOU HAVE
TO SAY BECAUSE I KNOW YOU LIVE
IN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD.
I LIVE CLOSE TO THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD.
OK, BUT I'M ALSO TRYING TO BE
VERY OBJECTIVE.
SO I HAVE A QUESTION FOR STAFF.
SO WHILE I THINK WE ALL WISH
THAT THIS PARCEL WAS ALREADY
ZONED BE ONE THEY COULD APPLY
FOR A REZONING RIGHT.
>> DC ONE IS AN AVAILABLE
OPTION IN THIS AREA.
OK, JUST WANTED TO CONFIRM THAT
.
I MEAN WE START HERE SO I
UNDERSTAND THE BRAND ALTHOUGH
I'VE SEEN NOT I'VE BEEN LOOKING
AT MAPS OF ALL THE BRANCHES.
THEY DON'T ALL LOOK LIKE THE
WAY THAT THIS LOOKS BUT AS A
CITY WE HAVE GOALS FOR CLIMATE
AND HOUSING THAT TO ME ARE MORE
IMPORTANT THAN ROOF ANGLES.
YOU KNOW THIS IS THE EXACT SAME
BANK THAT EXISTS ON CARPENTER
ROAD LIKE IT'S EXACTLY THE
SAME.
SO THIS JUST FEELS LIKE A COPY
AND PASTE.
SO I GUESS MY FIRST QUESTION IS
DID YOU CONSIDER THE FACT THAT
ONE IS DESIRED THIS AREA?
DID YOU CONSIDER THE LARGER
CITY GOALS WHEN YOU PROPOSED
THIS PROJECT OR IS THIS
LITERALLY A COPY PASTE?
>> IT IS NOT A COPY CARPENTER
ROAD LOOKS SIMILAR.
IT IS IT'S DESIGNED IN THE
CONTEXT THE BRAND WHICH IS TO
BRING IN A LOT OF SUNLIGHT INTO
THE BUILDING AND TO MAKE IT A
VERY PEDESTRIAN FRIENDLY
BUILDING AS WELL.
DESIGN.
SO YES, THE CITY'S GOALS WERE
WERE DEFINITELY CONSIDERED IN
THE CONTEXT OF THAT THE BRAND
OF THE BUILDING AND THE SOLAR
PANELS ARE A DIRECT RESULT
OF THAT AS IS THE RAIN GARDEN
AND THE OTHER FEATURES AREN'T
NECESSARILY REQUIRED BY CODE .
SO WE WERE WE WERE TASKED WITH
FOLLOWING YOUR ZONING ORDINANCE
CRITERIA AND IT CAN BE ALARMING
TO AN APPLICANT TO HEAR WHAT WE
WHAT SOUNDS LIKE COMMISSIONERS'
GOING OFF IN THEIR OWN
DIRECTION AND DEPARTING FROM
THE ZONING ORDINANCE THAT WE
ARE REQUIRED TO FOLLOW.
>> YEAH, I UNDERSTAND.
I MEAN I THINK THIS COMES DOWN
TO THE DRIVE THRU BECAUSE
OF REASONS THAT HAVE ALREADY
BEEN STATED AND I'M NOT
PERSUADED BY THE NEED FOR
ESPECIALLY A THREE LANE DRIVE
THROUGH.
YOU KNOW, LIKE I THINK WE'VE
LEARNED A LOT FROM COVID IF
THERE'S ANOTHER PANDEMIC I
THINK PEOPLE WILL MESS UP.
I AGREE WITH COMMISSIONER SAUVé
ON THE YOU KNOW, NOT
CONSIDERING WHEN WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT THE SPECIAL EXCEPTION
LIKE IT'S MAYBE MAYBE IT'S
CONVENIENT FOR YOUR MEMBERS
THINKING ABOUT THE PEOPLE THAT
LIVE IN THIS NEIGHBORHOOD AND
IF PEOPLE NEED TO DRIVE THROUGH
THERE'S A DRIVE THROUGH ON
STATE, THERE'S A DRIVE THRU
CARPENTERSVILLE ALREADY AND A
CAR I DON'T WANT TO ADD VMT IS
BUT THERE ARE OTHER OPTIONS AND
SO AT THIS POINT I'M NOT
WILLING TO APPROVE THE I AND I
GUESS I JUST HAVE TO I I KNOW
AND WE'VE ALL SAID IT ALREADY A
LOT OF US HAVE SAID IT ALREADY.
IT'S JUST I JUST FEEL LIKE THIS
IS A HUGE STEP BACKWARDS AND I
MEAN YOU SOME OF YOU SAID IT
YOURSELF YOU'RE GOING BACK TO
GAS BECAUSE HE PUMPS DIDN'T
WORK TEN YEARS AGO AND IT'S
JUST REALLY FRUSTRATING MY
FIRST PLANNING COMMISSION
MEETING WAS THE PUDI.
>> I'VE SAID THIS BEFORE THE
PREVIEW MEETING FOR VIRIDIAN
AND I WAS SO EXCITED.
WE'RE LIKE WE'RE LOOKING TO THE
FUTURE WITH THIS PROJECT.
THERE'S HOUSING, IT'S MIXED
USE.
IT'S LIKE FULLY SUSTAINABLE AND
IT JUST JUST FEELS TO ME LIKE
THIS IS A PROJECT THAT WE WOULD
APPROVE OF LIKE TWENTY YEARS
AGO AND THAT PIECE IS
ESPECIALLY FRUSTRATING.
>> BUT I THINK, YOU KNOW, WE
HAVE TO FOCUS ON PROBABLY THE
ICU PART BECAUSE IT'S BY RIGHT
.
>> OK, I JUST REITERATE THAT
THE DRIVE THRU IS THERE HAS
BEEN A LOT OF DISCUSSION ABOUT
SERVING IN OUR RESIDENTS AND
THE CREDIT UNION IS SERVING IN
OUR RESIDENTS AND THESE ARE
CUSTOMERS OF THE CREDIT UNION
WHO LIVE IN ANN ARBOR WHO ARE
GOING TO ENJOY PROPOSE THAT
WE'RE PROPOSING WILL ENJOY THE
DRIVE THRU AS AN AMENITY TO THE
FACILITY AND IN THE CONTEXT
THAT IT'S BEEN DESCRIBED THIS
EVENING.
SO IT IS ABOUT IT IS ABOUT
RESIDENTS AND SERVING RESIDENTS
AND AND PROVIDING AN AMENITY
FOR THOSE AND OUR RESIDENTS AT
ALL.
>> I MEAN CERTAINLY SOME CAN BE
CHOSEN OVER OTHERS SAY WE LIKE
YOU KNOW, SOME RESIDENTS MORE
THAN OTHERS AND WE WANT TO
SERVE THOSE PEOPLE MORE.
BUT WE'RE TRYING TO OFFER A
FACILITY THAT SERVES A LOT
OF DIFFERENT TYPES FOLKS.
>> SO I'VE BEEN OH DID YOU HAVE
A LITTLE LITTLE SOMETHING I
JUST WANT TO ADD THAT WE HEARD
FROM THREE OF YOUR CUSTOMERS
WHO OPPOSE THIS.
SO IN TERMS OF WHO YOU'RE
CATERING TO IN THE CONVENIENCE
OF THE DRIVE THRU, IT'S NOT
YOUR CUSTOMERS EITHER RELATIVE
TO THIS NEIGHBORHOOD.
>> THOSE THAT ARE IN THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD OR IN THIS
COMMUNITY ARE NOT INTERESTED IN
THIS PROJECT.
SO I STILL THINK THAT THERE'S A
LACK IN BOTH DIRECTIONS AS TO
THE EXCEPTION AND WHY THIS
WOULD BE EXCEPTIONAL AND IT'S
EITHER I WOULD ADD TO THAT WITH
THE PAST DRIVE THRU I VOTED FOR
A COUPLE OF THEM WITH THE VERY
CLEAR DIRECTION THAT I FELT
LIKE IT WAS UNFAIR TO
PETITIONERS WHO HAD SUBMITTED
BEFORE WE MADE THIS BIG KIND
OF PHILOSOPHICAL SHIFT.
THEY WERE IN THE PIPELINE AND
HOW COULD THEY KNOW BASICALLY
YOU ALL I MEAN YOU IT DIDN'T IT
DOESN'T TAKE A LOT TO LOOK BACK
AT OUR AT OUR PAST MEETINGS TO
UNDERSTAND JUST HOW MUCH
CONTROVERSY THERE HAS BEEN
AROUND DRIVETHROUGH.
THAT'S NOT HARD AND IT'S AT OUR
DISCRETION.
>> AND SO I FEEL LIKE SIMILARLY
TO COMMISSIONER WHITE THAT IT'S
LIKE I MEAN IT WAS YOUR RISK TO
TAKE BUT THE WRITING WAS ALL
OVER ALL OF OUR PAST MINUTES
AROUND OUR TREPIDATION WITH
DRIVE THROUGH AND I KNOW THAT
STAFF MAY FEEL DIFFERENTLY
ABOUT THIS BUT THE DISCUSSION
AT THIS TABLE HAS BEEN PRETTY
AGAINST THEM.
>> YOU KNOW, ALL THE WAY
THROUGH.
SO I HATE TO I MEAN IT IS AN
ENORMOUS AMOUNT OF TIME AND
INVESTMENT AND I GET THAT I GO
THROUGH IT ON THE OTHER SIDE
TOO.
BUT I ALSO FEEL LIKE YOU ALL
JUST NEED TO DO YOUR HOMEWORK.
I MEAN THE DISCUSSION HAS BEEN
VERY CLEAR THAT WE'VE BEEN
TRENDING AWAY FROM THIS.
SO I I FEEL BAD THAT YOU SPENT
A LOT OF TIME INVESTING IN
SOMETHING THAT WAS FRANKLY A
BIG RISK I THINK IN TERMS
OF FINDING SYMPATHETIC A
MAJORITY OF SYMPATHETIC MEMBERS
OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
A COUPLE OF OTHER PIECES IS
THAT I FEEL LIKE I TOTALLY GET
YOU'VE HAVE FIRE REQUIREMENTS,
STUFF LIKE THAT.
I KNOW YOU PRETTY MUCH NEED TO
ENTRéES AT THIS POINT TO BE
ABLE TO DEAL WITH FIRE.
I GET THAT.
HOWEVER, THIS IS A SELF-IMPOSED
RESTRICTION THAT YOU ARE USING
AND CUTTING PART OF YOUR SITE.
YOU COULD BE USING THIS ENTIRE
SITE.
YOU COULD DO SOME SORT OF YOU
DRIVE THAT IS FOCUSED ONLY ON
PLYMOUTH ROAD AND JUST
COMPLETELY NOT HAVE THE THE
ACCESS OFFER.
>> PRARIE, THIS IS YOUR THIS IS
YOUR CHOICE TO LIMIT YOURSELF
TO THIS PIECE OF THAT YOU ARE
ULTIMATELY KIND OF FORCED INTO
USING THAT PRARIE STREET ACCESS
POINT.
SO YOU KNOW, THAT MAY BE PART
OF WHAT'S MAKING THE MATH WORK
FOR YOU SO YOU GUYS CAN SELL
THIS UP TO SOMEBODY ELSE.
BUT I ALSO COMPLETELY AGREE
WITH COMMISSIONER SAUVé THAT
YOU KNOW, WE VERY QUICKLY HERE
WE ARE GOING TO BE ENCOURAGING
A LARGE AMOUNT OF RESIDENTIAL
IN THIS AREA AND YOU ARE GOING
TO BE REQUIRED TO COMPLETING
LAND IS BUFFER AND BECAUSE
OF THAT THIS SITE IS JUST GOING
TO BE REALLY NARROW AND VERY
DIFFICULT TO DEVELOP.
SO I KNOW YOU'RE NOT IN THE
BUSINESS OF MANAGING APARTMENTS
OR HOUSING BUT BOY, THAT'S WHAT
WE REALLY I THINK WOULD BE MUCH
MORE SUPPORTIVE OF IS TO HAVE
SOME SORT OF MIXED USE ON THIS
SITE.
I GET IT THAT WE NEED TO WORK
WITH WHAT'S THERE BUT WHAT'S
THERE IS OFFICE.
YOU CAN GO UP FIVE STORIES AND
DO HOUSING ABOVE.
YOU ARE COMPLETELY ENTITLED AND
ENCOURAGED TO DO THAT WITHIN
OUR CURRENT ZONING YOU ARE NOT
LIMITED TO JUST ONLY HAVING AN
OFFICE USE HERE.
SO I I FEEL LIKE THE USE FIT IS
TOUGH HERE BECAUSE OF THE DRIVE
THROUGH TRAFFIC THAT'S COMING
AND THAT THE DIRECT I ACTUALLY
DISAGREE WITH WHAT THE
TRANSPORTATION GUY IS SAYING.
I THINK MANY PEOPLE WILL BE
COMING UP FOR PRAIRIE BECAUSE
THE DIRECTION OF THE DRIVE THRU
IS REALLY COMING OFF PRAIRIE
NOT COMING YOU HAVE TO KIND
OF LOOP AROUND WHEN YOU'RE
COMING UP IN PLYMOUTH.
SO I THINK MORE PEOPLE IT'S
MORE DIRECT TO COME IN OFF A
PRAIRIE AND THEN YOU GO
STRAIGHT THROUGH ITS DRIVE THRU
REGARDING THE OTHER DIRECTION
THEN I CAN TOTALLY SEE THAT.
BUT I THINK THAT IT'S NOT THAT
INTUITIVE.
>> IT'S LIKE YOU'RE LOOPING
AROUND WITHIN THE SYSTEM TO BE
ABLE TO USE
THE DRIVE THROUGH
WHEN YOU'RE COMING OFF A
PLIMOTH.
>> SO BECAUSE LIKE WHAT
COMMISSIONER MILLS IS SAYING
IT'S A VERY SMALL FOOTPRINT FOR
FOR A MORE TRAFFIC THAT IS
GOING TO BE USED THERE.
I FEEL LIKE THERE'S GOING TO BE
MORE IN AND OUT THAT'S COMING
OFF OF THAT STREET.
>> AND YOU KNOW, I JUST KNOW
EVEN WHEN I'M DRIVING AROUND IT
AND I LIKE BIKE AND WALK
EVERYWHERE IT IS JUST SO EASY
TO, YOU KNOW, PULL OUT
OF THERE.
YOU'RE TAKING A RIGHT TO GET
BACK OUT ONTO PLYMOUTH.
YOU'RE LOOKING TO THE LEFT.
YOU DON'T SEE THE PEOPLE THAT
ARE COMING FROM THE RIGHT WHEN
THEY'RE WHEN YOU'RE PULLING OUT
ON THE PRAIRIE.
IT'S JUST JUST A SUPER TYPICAL
THING THAT HAPPENS ALL THE TIME
WITH CARS AND BECAUSE OF THIS
USE OF THIS SORT OF CONSTANT
PEOPLE DRIVING AND PEOPLE
DRIVING OUT PEOPLE DRIVING IN
PEOPLE DRIVING OUT WHICH IS
VERY DIFFERENT THAN THE OFFICE
USE I THINK I FEEL LIKE THERE
IS MORE RISK ON PRAIRIE AND
OFTENTIMES WE AREN'T
NECESSARILY TO BE PERFECTLY
FRANK, SUPER SYMPATHETIC TO
TRAFFIC ARGUMENTS I THINK THAT
PEOPLE BRING TO US.
>> BUT IN THIS CASE WE HAVE
DISCRETION HERE AND THIS IS A
PLACE WHERE I FEEL LIKE WE HAVE
DISCRETION.
SO AS YOU CAN PROBABLY GUESS I
WILL NOT BE SUPPORTING THIS
TONIGHT.
I FEEL LIKE THERE'S JUST A LOT
OF WAYS THAT YOU ALL COULD HAVE
DONE YOUR HOMEWORK AND REALLY
THOUGHT ABOUT WHAT THE KINDS
OF THINGS WE WANT TO SEE AND I
FEEL LIKE YOU CHOSE TO GO YOUR
OWN WAY AND THAT'S THE RISK YOU
TAKE.
COMMISSIONER DISH I'M SORRY.
I FEEL LIKE I'VE BEEN TALKING A
LOT BUT I JUST HAVE TWO MORE
QUESTIONS OF STAFF IF THAT'S
OK.
OK, SO ONE IS THERE WAS A
COMMENT AND ONE OF THE
COMMUNICATIONS WE RECEIVED FROM
THE PUBLIC THAT THERE IS AN
EXISTING CONCERN ABOUT THE
PRAIRIE PLIMOTH INTERSECTION
ALREADY I NOTICED THERE IS A
CROSSWALK THERE ALREADY AND I
DIDN'T I DON'T KNOW HOW TO
INTERPRET THE LETTER.
WRITERS CLAIM THAT THERE IS A
CONCERN THAT THIS IS ON SOME
SORT OF LIST OF PROBLEMATIC UH
,CROSSINGS THAT YEAH, IT'S
WHAT THE PERSON SAID, OK,
YOU'RE SWITCHING THE SPECIFIC
QUESTION TO THE TRANSPORTATION
AND OK, SO BE ALL RIGHT.
>> BUT I'M HAVING A FOLLOW UP.
YEAH.
AND THEN JUST THE OTHER THING
IS I JUST WANT TO ASK AGAIN DUE
TO MY UNFAMILIARITY WITH USE
WHEN WE I JUST BE CLEAR ON THE
DISTINCTION BETWEEN A PD AND AN
SIU AND WHEN WE'RE EVALUATING A
PD WE ARE LOOKING FOR IT HAS TO
BE WARRANTED BY SERVING PUBLIC
GOODS IS THAT THE STANDARD
OF AN SIU?
I MEAN IT IT'S A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE WHICH MEANS WE
LOOK AT IT HARD BEFORE WE SAY
YES BUT DOES IT MEAN THAT THE
PROJECT NEEDS TO BE THERE NEEDS
TO BE SOMETHING EXCEPTIONAL
ABOUT IT DOESN'T HAVE TO BE
EXCEPTIONAL.
IT HAS TO SATISFY THOSE
CRITERIA TO THE SATISFACTION
OF THE PLANNING
.
ANYBODY ELSE.
>> OK, IF I COULD PLEASE AND
NOT THAT THIS BECAUSE SWAY
ANYONE'S DECISION BUT I JUST
DID WANT TO ADDRESS A COUPLE
OF THE COMMENTS ABOUT TRAFFIC
AND AND PEDESTRIAN MOVEMENTS SO
UM JACOB RANDALL, YOU DID
MENTION THE FACT THAT WE HAVE
THE PRAIRIE STREET APPROACH AS
WELL AS PLYMOUTH AND QUESTION
WHETHER WE COULD HAVE DUAL
ACCESS ON PLYMOUTH.
SO THERE ARE CRITERIA FOR
SEPARATE FROM THAT CURB CUT TO
THE INTERSECTION OF PRAIRIE AND
PLYMOUTH THAT PROBABLY PRESENTS
A PROBLEM FOR HAVING BOTH CURB
CUTS ON PLYMOUTH AND SO AND
THEN IN ADDITION TO THAT, PART
OF THE REASON WE HAVE THIS
DESIGN IS THE SINGLE ENTRANCE
THAT WOULD BE SHARED FOR AN
ADJACENT DEVELOPMENT IS TO
MINIMIZE CURB CUTS ON THAT ON
THAT ROAD AS WELL.
SO AND THEN THE OTHER THING I
WILL ADDRESS THAT COMMISSIONER
DISH MENTIONED IS THE EXISTING
CROSSWALK, THE CROSSES PER
PRARIE STREET AT PLYMOUTH.
A NUMBER OF RESIDENTS MENTIONED
THE THE COMMUNITY POOL THAT
THEY FREQUENT AND I JUST DID
WANT TO MENTION THAT THERE IS
THAT EXISTING CROSSWALK FOR
PEOPLE THAT ARE LOOKING TO WALK
OR GET TO THE POOL VIA SIDEWALK
AND THEN FURTHER NORTH TO THE
NEXT NEIGHBORHOOD STREET
THERE'S A CROSSWALK THERE THAT
DOESN'T FORCE THEM TO WALK
NORTH AND SOUTH ALONG THE
SIDEWALK AND ON THE PRAIRIE
STREET FRONTAGE.
SO JUST WANTED TO ADDRESS THOSE
COUPLE OF THINGS.
COMMISSIONER MILLS, I JUST
THOUGHT I'D CHIME IN.
THANK YOU FOR BRINGING UP THE
COMMENT AND BEFORE KIND
OF WHAT'S GOING ON ON PRAIRIE
IN PLYMOUTH, I'M ALSO THINKING
ABOUT THE TOME OF DOCUMENTS
THAT THAT CONSTITUTES A
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND THAT
INCLUDES THE MOVING TOGETHER
TOWARDS VISION ZERO AND ON PAGE
THIRTY THREE OF THAT IT LOOKS
THERE'S A DOT SHOWING WHERE NON
SIGNALIZED OR LET JUST LET ME
GET THE THE HEADING OF THIS
IT'S A TAKE IT'S A MAP SHOWING
NEW UNCONTROLLED CROSSWALKS
THAT ARE PROPOSED AND IT'S ON
EMPLOYMENT AND AND IT'S JUST
EAST OF HURON PARKWAY.
IT LOOKS TO BE AT THAT
INTERSECTION.
SO THIS TO ME SUGGESTS THAT
THIS IS A PLACE WHERE WE ARE
EXPECTING SOMEWHERE IN THAT AT
PRAIRIE ADDITIONAL LIKE IT'S
ALREADY A NEED FOR ADDITIONAL
PEDESTRIAN CROSSINGS.
SO I THINK COLLECTIVELY I MEAN
THIS IS AMONG THE REASONS THAT
THIS DOESN'T SEEM LIKE THE
RIGHT PLACE FOR A YOUTH THAT
HAS LOTS OF COMINGS AND GOINGS
LIKE THIS.
SO BUT I THINK MAYBE THAT MAY
HAVE BEEN WHERE THAT CAME.
>> PAGE THREE THIS IS A GREAT
DOCUMENT.
CHECK IT OUT, FOLKS.
ARE WE READY FOR VOTE ROLL CALL
VOTE ON THE MOTION AS PRESENTED
COUNCIL MEMBER DASH NO
COMMISSIONER LEIGH NO
COMMISSIONER KLUTCH NO
COMMISSIONER MILLS NO
COMMISSIONER WISCH NO
COMMISSIONER GIVE BRANDL NO
COMMISSIONER SAUVé NO
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT NO.
THAT MOTION FAILS
.
I SUGGEST THAT WE TAKE A BREAK.
WHY WE COME BACK AT NINE THIRTY
ARE ON TO ITEM TEN WHICH IS
OTHER BUSINESS AND ON TO TEN A
WHICH IS THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE DOWNTOWN
PREMIUM'S DISCUSSION TO
ESTABLISH ASSUMPTIONS AND TO
PRIORITIZE GOALS.
SO I DON'T KNOW IF WE'RE WE'RE
PROBABLY GETTING A PRESENTATION
FROM YOU ALL.
>> YES.
THANK YOU.
PLEASE HOPEFULLY NOT HEARING A
WHOLE LOT FROM US SUPPORT
HEARING FROM THIS GROUP.
UM, JUST FOR BACKGROUND, I'M
BEN CARLISLE FROM CARLISLE
ASSOCIATES.
WITH ME IS MY ASSOCIATE MEGHAN
NESSIM AND ALSO CAIRO, OUR
ASSOCIATES.
IT'S REALLY NICE TO BE BACK IN
FRONT OF YOU AGAIN TONIGHT.
WE WERE LAST YEAR IN FEBRUARY
BEFORE WE STARTED REALLY OUR
PRESENTATION.
I JUST WANT TO SAY I FOUND THE
DISCUSSION EARLIER REALLY
APPROPRIATE AND KIND TO UP
REALLY LIKE REALLY WELL INTO
THIS DISCUSSION ACTUALLY I
ACTUALLY TURNED IT BACK AND GO
THIS IS PERFECT GO.
AND THEN BEN USED TO SIT OVER
THERE.
I JUST WENT THERE TRY SOMETHING
LIKE HE YOU KNOW AND I JUST
SOME OF THE THINGS I HEARD WAS,
YOU KNOW, NOT EFFICIENT USE
OF THE SITE
, A GREATER MIX
OF USES SITE CREATIVITY OR LACK
THEREOF DISCUSS ABOUT THE
OVERALL VISION OF THE GOALS AND
THEN HOW DO THE OVERALL GOALS
AND THE VISION YOU GET
MANIFESTED IN DEVELOPMENT
OF TOOLS THAT COME FROM YOU?
AND I THINK COMMISSIONER WEISS
SAID YOU KNOW WHY ARE YOU HERE?
>> AND I THINK THAT'S A GREAT
FRAMEWORK FOR WHERE WE WANT TO
GO TONIGHT BECAUSE WE CAN
PROVIDE YOU WITH MANY POLICY
OPTIONS AND ZONING AMENDMENTS
AND OTHER THINGS.
BUT IF WE ARE NOT ALL ON THE
SAME PAGE WITH REGARDS TO
ASSUMPTIONS AND GOALS, WE MAY
HAVE SOME OF THE SAME CONCERN
AND CONFUSION THAT CAME IN FOR
YOU TONIGHT.
AND SO THAT IS THE FOCUS IN
THIS MOVE FORWARD.
>> ARE YOU GOING TO DO IT OR
CAN YOU MOVE FORWARD?
>> THAT'S THE FOCUS OF WHAT
THEY MOVE THE NEXT INTO FOCUS
OF WHAT WE REALLY WANT TO TALK
ABOUT TONIGHT IS REALLY WE TALK
ABOUT ASSUMPTIONS, AGREEMENTS,
GOALS AND POLICY APPROACHES.
>> BUT BEFORE YOU GET TO THAT
PART WHICH MEGHAN IS GOING TO
LEAD, I'M GOING TO GO OVER SOME
REAL BORING BASIC HOUSEKEEPING
ITEMS.
>> WE ARE IN FRONT OF YOU IN
FEBRUARY AT THAT TIME WE HAD
KIND OF GIVEN YOU OUR INITIAL
DOVE INTO SOME OF THE DENHA
OF THE DATA THAT WE RECEIVE
FROM THE CITY AS WELL AS SOME
JUST KIND OF HIGH LEVEL
ANALYSIS OF WHAT WE PERCEIVED
BASED ON THAT REVIEW AT THAT
TIME YOU HAD GIVE US REALLY
GOOD INSIGHT, GOOD FEEDBACK AT
THE MEETING AND ASKED FOR A FEW
ADDITIONAL DATA REQUIREMENTS AS
WELL AND SO BREAK INTO THE NEXT
SLIDE WE'VE DONE THAT AND SO
THE FORUMS THAT WERE REALLY
ASKED FOR WAS DATA ON BUILT
PROJECTS BY POLICY CHANGE
DATES, DATA BUILT PRODUCTS BY
CHANGES IN CITY COUNCIL, THE
COMPARISON OF DENSITY WITH
CASES WITH OUR COMMUNITIES AND
LASTLY A MAP OF PROPERTY
ELIGIBLE FOR PREMIUMS.
I'M NOT GOING TO FOCUS TONIGHT
ON THE FOURTH I AM THE MAP.
WERE THERE ANY OTHER DATA OR
ANY QUESTIONS ON THE DATA WE
GAVE YOU THE ADDITIONAL THAT
YOU HAD REQUESTED THEN WE WILL
MOVE ON THE NEXT ONE NEXT
SLIDE.
>> THANK YOU.
WE FOUND THIS MAP TO BE
EXTREMELY INTERESTING AND
APPLICABLE TO WHAT WE'RE GOING
TO TALK ABOUT TONIGHT.
>> THIS IS A MAP OF THE ONE IN
TO D TO ZONING DISTRICTS.
>> THE PARCELS OUTLINED IN
GREEN ARE PARCELS THAT ARE
ELIGIBLE FOR PREMIUMS BASED ON
THE CURRENT CODE .
>> THOSE PARCELS OUTLINED OR
COLORED IN IN LIGHT PINK
VARIOUS SHADES OF PINK ARE
PROPERTIES THAT ARE ZONED D ONE
OR TWO BUT THEY ARE INELIGIBLE
FOR PREMIUMS.
SO WE ACTUALLY DID SOME
ANALYSIS OF WHAT THAT MEANS.
SO APPROXIMATELY OVER FIFTY
FORTY EIGHT PERCENT I THINK IT
IS OF PARCELS THAT ARE ZONED
ONE OR D TWO ARE NOT ELIGIBLE
FOR PREMIUMS AND THAT ACTUALLY
EQUATES OVER FIFTY PERCENT
OF THE TOTAL LAND AREA IN THE
DOWNTOWN AND SO WE'RE NOT
CREATING MORE LAND IN OUR
DOWNTOWN.
SO WE NEED TO BE REALLY
THOUGHTFUL IN TERMS OF HOW WE
DEVELOP THAT PARCELS THAT ARE
ELIGIBLE AND DO WE NEED TO LOOK
AT ELIGIBILITY AS PART OF THE
DISCUSSION WITH REGARDS TO TO
THE PREMIUMS OPTIONS.
SO WE JUST WANT TO TELL THE
STORY AS WELL AS THAT THIS IS
WHAT WE HEARD A LOT FROM A LOT
OF THE STAKEHOLDERS WAS A LOT
OF THE PARCELS ALREADY NOT
ELIGIBLE AND SO IT ACTUALLY
REALLY DOES SHOW ITSELF IN
THESE MAPS MOVING FORWARD.
NEXT SLIDE.
SO TONIGHT AGAIN REALLY AGAIN I
WANT I THINK THE EARLIER
DISCUSSION WAS SO APPROPRIATE
FOR WHAT WE WANT TO TALK ABOUT
TONIGHT BECAUSE WE WANT TO GET
THESE FIRST TWO REALLY HARD IS
TALK ABOUT ASSUMPTIONS AND TALK
ABOUT YOUR GOALS AND THAT WILL
LEAD US TO HELP US CRAFT POLICY
APPROACHES AS WE MOVE FORWARD.
>> WE ARE TONIGHT WE'RE GOING
TO HAVE THOSE DISCUSSIONS AND
THEN WE'RE TO COME BACK TO YOU
ONE MORE TIME TO KIND OF FRAME
THIS A LITTLE BIT TIGHTER AND
PRESENT SOME POTENTIAL POLICY
OPTIONS THAT WE THEN TAKE TO
THE STAKEHOLDERS TO GET THEIR
FEEDBACK AS WELL.
SO THIS IS NOT YOUR ONLY BY
TONIGHT WE WILL COME BACK ONE
MORE TIME BEFORE WE GO TO THE
STAKEHOLDERS AND SHOW AGAIN WE
WANT TO HEAR FROM YOU TONIGHT
WHAT THE PURPOSE OF YOUR
ASSUMPTIONS THAT WE'RE TO TALK
ABOUT YOUR POLICY AND GOALS AND
THEN HOW DOES THAT LEAD TO IT
TO APPROACHES TO TO ADDRESS
THOSE GOALS, ET CETERA SO THAT
THAT I'M GOING TO TURN OVER TO
MEGAN WHO IS GOING TO LEAD US
IN THAT DISCUSSION.
>> THANKS, MAN.
HE ALWAYS LEAVES THE EASY PART
TO ME.
SO AGAIN, THANK YOU FOR HAVING
US AND ALSO THANK YOUR STAFF
FOR WORKING WITH US TO BRING
ALL OF THIS INFORMATION REPORT
TO YOU IN THE PRESENTATION
TONIGHT.
WE WANTED TO START OFF WITH
ASSUMPTIONS BECAUSE WE'VE
THROWN A LOT OF DATA AT YOU AND
FAIRLY THICK REPORTS AND WANT
TO MAKE SURE THAT THESE
ASSUMPTIONS THAT ARE LISTED
HERE ARE THE ASSUMPTIONS THAT
WE'RE ALL WORKING ON AND WE ALL
AGREE ON.
SO I'M GOING TO GO OVER THEM
ORALLY AND THEN I'M GOING TO
ASK YOU THE QUESTION ARE THERE
ANY HERE THAT YOU DON'T AGREE
WITH?
SO ONE IS THAT THERE'S A
BALANCE OF LAND USES IN THE
DOWNTOWN AS IT IS IMPORTANT AND
RESIDENTIAL IS A CORE USE IN
THE DOWNTOWN TO IS DEVELOPING
IN THE DOWNTOWN IS MORE
DIFFICULT AND MORE EXTENSIVE
THAN ELSEWHERE IN THE CITY.
THREE SINCE THE LAST AMENDMENTS
TO THE PREMIUMS IN TWENTY
EIGHTEEN THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
MILLAGE PROVIDES DEDICATED
FUNDING FOR NECESSARY
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FOR A
SIGNIFICANT NUMBER
OF PROPERTIES IN THE DOWNTOWN
ARE INELIGIBLE FOR PREMIUMS.
FIVE CURRENT DOWNTOWN
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT IS
EITHER HIGH END LOW SKILL
RESIDENTIAL OR STUDENT HOUSING.
THE CURRENT MARKET DOES NOT
SUPPORT BUILDING OF ATTAINABLE
MISSING MIDDLE HOUSING DOWNTOWN
OR SIX AND SIX.
THE CURRENT PREMIUMS ARE NOT
BEING UTILIZED DUE TO A VARIETY
OF REASONS WE WANT TO MAKE SURE
THAT THESE ASSUMPTIONS CAPTURE
WHAT'S GOING ON IN THAT WE
AGREE THAT WE'RE WORKING OFF
OF THIS BASIS.
SO IS THERE ANYTHING IN THAT
LIST THAT I READ OUT AND THAT'S
BEEN PRESENTED TO YOU THAT YOU
DO NOT AGREE WITH?
OK, SO YOU WANT TO CALL OR YOU
WANT ME TO GO?
NO, YOU GO AHEAD.
OK, GO AHEAD.
YEAH, I SAW COMMISSIONER ONE
OF THESE HANDS FIRST AND THEN I
SAW TO SO WE'RE GOING TO WORK
THIS WAY A OK I HAD A I GUESS
THE FIRST ONE WAS THE BALANCE
OF LAND USES AND THE TERM
BALANCE AND WAS INTENDED BY
THAT SO THE IDEA OF BALANCE IS
THAT THERE'S A VARIETY AND THAT
THEY WORK AND THEY WORK IN
SYNCHRONICITY WITH ONE ANOTHER
AND SO YOU HAVE TO HAVE THE
RIGHT BALANCE FOR THE DOWNTOWN
TO WORK WELL AND RESIDENTIAL IS
A CORE COMPONENT OF THAT.
>> SO DOES THAT MEAN LIKE KIND
OF ON A METRIC SCALE LIKE THE
THERE'S RATIOS TO THE AMOUNT
OF OFFICE COMMERCIAL LIKE IS AN
INDUSTRY PRACTICE THAT BALANCES
OUT SO THEY WORK.
>> YEAH.
AND THE OFFICE SNAPSHOT THE
DOWNTOWN SNAPSHOT THAT YOU HAVE
THE WORK SESSION ON YOUR NEXT
MEETING THAT REPORT WE GET A
PREVIEW OF IT THAT WILL DIG
INTO THAT AND ACTUALLY IF YOU
LOOK INTO THAT WHAT THEY SAY IS
THAT RESIDENTIAL AND DOWNTOWN
ANN ARBOR AS COMPARED TO
SEVERAL OTHER COLLEGE CITIES
DOWNTOWNS THE CITY DOES NOT
HAVE THE SAME RATIO A LOWER
RATIO OF RESIDENTIAL THAN MOST
OF THESE OTHER TOWNS.
SO THE MAKES RESIDENTIAL THAT'S
WHY WE SAID IT'S A CORE USE IN
THE DOWNTOWN AND THEREFORE WHEN
YOU LOOK AT THAT DATA YOU MIGHT
ALSO BE SAYING TO YOURSELF
MAYBE THEN THIS IS WHAT WE NEED
TO CONCENTRATE ON IN TERMS
OF MAKING SURE THAT THAT USES
THE BALANCE OF THE USES IS
RIGHT.
>> OK, I JUST WANT TO CLARIFY
THAT I GUESS THERE'S TWO
CONCERNS.
I THINK THE BALANCE ON THE
METRIC TO BE ABLE TO MEASURE IS
GOOD.
I THINK THE OTHER ASSUMPTION AT
LEAST FOR ME SO KIND OF OPEN TO
DISCUSSION IS IF WE'RE TRYING
TO MAKE ELIGIBLE BUILDING TO
KIND OF RIGHT SIZE THE ONE
MISSING PIECE INSTEAD
OF LETTING EVERYTHING KIND
OF GROW IN BALANCE TOGETHER.
>> SO I WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
WE'RE NOT SAYING LIKE JUST
ENOUGH TO GET IT BALANCED BUT
MAYBE THAT WE'RE OK WITH A
LITTLE BIT MORE OF EVERYTHING
AS LONG AS IT'S CONSISTENTLY
WORKING TOWARDS LIKE BALANCED
ZONING, INCENTIVIZING KIND
OF ALL THE DIFFERENT USES
TOGETHER IF THAT MAKES SENSE.
>> OK, WHICH KIND OF LEADS ME
TO MY SECOND ONE I HAVE
CONCERNS ABOUT WHICH IS THE
MARKET AND MISSING MIDDLE AND
DOWNTOWN BECAUSE MISSING MIDDLE
I DON'T THINK IS THE DENSITY
ALL OF DOWNTOWN BETWEEN D1, D2
AND THEN TCW AND I THINK
MISSING FROM ALL OF THAT SPACE
IN BETWEEN IT BECAUSE MISSING
AT LEAST MY DEFINITION IS KIND
OF LOW DENSITY MULTIFAMILY
HOUSING WHERE I THINK WHAT
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT IS MORE
HIGH DENSITY DEVELOPMENT IN THE
DOWNTOWN AND THEN KIND OF MID
TO HIGH IN THE SUWON.
SO THAT'S AT LEAST A CONCERN
FOR ME.
SO I WANT TO PUT THAT ON THE
TABLE FOR DISCUSSION AS WELL AS
HIGH END RESIDENTIAL AND I
THINK THIS IS THE WORD THAT
GETS THROWN AROUND A LOT.
>> I ACTUALLY DON'T SEE MUCH
HIGH END EXCEPT FOR MAYBE
CONDOS TOWNHOUSES NEAR LIKE BEN
KINGSLEY LIKE A FOR SALE.
BUT A LOT OF THE HOUSING IS NOT
HIGH END OR LUXURY APARTMENTS.
>> SO OK, TO CLARIFY I THINK
WHEN WE SAID HIGH END LOW SKILL
RESIDENTIAL THAT MEANS THE
TOWNHOUSES OK TOGETHER OK AND
THEN THE STUDENT HOUSING IS A
DIFFERENT GROUP OF HOUSES.
>> I DIDN'T WANT TO THINK THAT
LIKE HIGH AND HOUSING WAS OK SO
I FEEL BETTER.
I FEEL A LOT BETTER ABOUT THAT
BECAUSE I WAS REALLY LIKE I
THINK WE'RE ACTUALLY SEEING
QUITE A BIT THERE.
I SIT DOWN OH SECOND MOM SIT
DOWN SO I AM GOING WITH BALANCE
I THINK I'M GOOD WITH HIGH END
IN ITS CONTEXT I STILL I WANT
TO OPEN THE DISCUSSION TO
MISSING MIDDLE AND WHAT WE MEAN
BY KIND OF BALANCE TO MORE
OF EVERYTHING OR MORE
OF SOMETHING TO GET A BALANCED
OR KIND OF THE TWO POINTS AND
DISCUSSION BALANCE AND THEN
MISSING MIDDLE VERSUS IS THAT
IS THAT THE DESCRIPTION THE
RIGHT DENSITY FOR DOWN D1 D2
CORRECT.
>> GREAT OK ALL RIGHT I I WILL
JUST SAY AGAIN I WANTED A
DEFINITION OF MISSING MIDDLE
BECAUSE I HAD THE SAME QUESTION
IN MY HEAD.
WHAT I THINK OF AS MISSING
MIDDLE IS NOT NECESSARILY WHAT
I THINK OF AS DOWNTOWN
APPROPRIATE.
MM.
>> SO OK WELCOME TO THAT
DISCUSSION.
ALL RIGHT I BELIEVE
COMMISSIONER CLARK YOU HAD YOUR
HAND UP SAME QUESTION.
>> OH YES.
>> YEAH OK SO YEAH THE MISSING
MIDDLE THING I WOULD SAY THAT
I'M INTERESTED IN MARKET RATE
RENTAL THAT'S NOT DESIGNED
LITERALLY ARCHITECTURALLY FOR
STUDENTS IN MIND.
>> THAT'S WHAT I THINK THAT
WE'RE MISSING IN THE DOWNTOWN
IS RENTAL THAT IS YOU KNOW
THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT I SAID AND
NEED RESAY AND SO THE OTHER
THING IS YES, WE HAVE DEDICATED
I'VE CHANGED A LITTLE BIT OR
I'VE LEARNED SOME THINGS THAT
MAKE ME NERVOUS ABOUT THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING PIECE AND I
AGREE THAT THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING MILLAGE PROVIDES
DEDICATE FUNDING FOR AFFORDABLE
HOUSING.
BUT WE ARE BEING MADE AWARE
FROM OUR HOUSING COMMISSION
THAT THE MILLAGE ISN'T GOING AS
FAR AS WE THOUGHT IT WOULD GO
BECAUSE OF THE INCREASE IN
COSTS WHICH WE DON'T KNOW IF
THAT'S A TEMPORARY POST
PANDEMIC THING.
IT'S PROBABLY NOT ENTIRELY IT
MAY BE PARTIALLY IT CERTAINLY
DOES HAVE SOMETHING TO DO WITH
SUPPLY CHAINS BUT I AM FEARFUL
THAT IF AFTER THE WHEN IT COMES
TIME TO RENEW THIS MILLAGE, IF
WE WEREN'T ABLE TO DELIVER ON
CLOSE TO THE NUMBER OF UNITS
THAT WE PROMISED, PEOPLE WILL
NOT BE WILLING TO VOTE FOR A
MILLAGE AGAIN.
OK, THEY'LL SAY YOU DIDN'T
SPEND IT RIGHT SO AND SO WE
HAVE A DEDICATED FUNDING SOURCE
.
>> BUT I THINK THAT THAT AND I
HAD BEEN THINKING EARLIER THAT
MAYBE WE COULD RELAX ON THAT A
LITTLE BIT AND ORIENT OUR
PREMIUMS OTHERWISE I STILL
THINK THAT THAT THOSE MILLAGE
FUNDS NEED SUPPLEMENTING
BECAUSE THEY AREN'T GOING AS
FAR AS WE THOUGHT THEY WERE AND
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT ASSUMPTIONS
HERE.
SO DOES ANYBODY FEEL LIKE THEY
WANT TO SAY WAIT, THAT DOESN'T
MAKE SENSE TO ME OR YEAH I IN
THERE TOO.
>> YEAH.
ON THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING I
GUESS I WOULD WANT CLARITY I
GUESS ON THE WORD PROVIDES
NEEDED.
YEAH.
JUST BECAUSE UM IN THE FIRST
YEAR I THINK OF THE MILEAGE IT
RECEIVED SIX POINT FIVE MILLION
AND OUR HOUSING LEADERS TOLD US
THAT THEY'RE ABLE TO BUILD
PERMANENT AFFORDABLE HOUSING AT
ABOUT FOUR HUNDRED THOUSAND
DOLLARS A UNIT WHICH MEAN WE'RE
ONLY CREATING SIXTEEN UNITS
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING ANNUALLY
FROM THAT TAX REVENUE JUST FROM
THE MILLAGE.
>> OK, THAT YES I UNDERSTAND
THAT THEY LEVERAGE IT TO TO GET
MORE BUT JUST SO SO I WOULD
JUST NEED CLARITY ON HOW THIS
ASSUMPTION IS WORKING INTO WHAT
WE'RE TRYING TO ACCOMPLISH.
>> SO I THINK THEN WHAT WHAT I
WOULD SUGGEST IS THAT
ASSUMPTION IS IS IS ADDED ON TO
IN THAT SINCE THE LAST
AMENDMENTS TO THE PREMIUMS IN
2019 THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
PROVIDES A DEDICATED FUNDING
SOURCE FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
>> HOWEVER IT CAN'T SOLELY BE
RELIED UPON AS ONLY FUNDING
SOURCE FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING
IN THE CITY.
OK, SO WE CAPTURED THAT SO WE
CAPTURED THAT.
AND IS THERE ANY OTHER ANY
ANYTHING ELSE THAT YOU DON'T
AGREE WITH?
NOT THAT THAT'S IN THIS IT'S
JUST NUANCE OR QUESTIONS.
SO INELIGIBLE.
DOES THAT MEAN PERMANENTLY
INELIGIBLE OR IS THERE
SOMETHING WE COULD DO TO TURN
SOME OF THOSE PINK THINGS
GREEN?
>> YOU COULD TURN THE PINK
THINGS GREEN BY ZONING
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT SO OPTION
COULD BE THAT PREMIUMS ARE
ALLOWED IN THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT OPTION COULD BE
PREMIUMS WOULD BE ALLOWED IN
THE IN THE FLOODPLAIN.
SO HOWEVER, I DON'T THINK WE'RE
READY TO UNPACK THOSE YET.
THAT'S THE NEXT SECTION AND SO
SOME OF THOSE I JUST WANTED TO
GIVE THAT IS AN EXAMPLE BUT WE
WANT TO HAVE THESE ASSUMPTIONS
SET AND THEN HAVE GOALS THEN
THAT GO INTO IT.
>> SO JUST ONE OTHER NUANCE
THING ON THE MISSING METAL
THING IS I MEAN THIS MAY JUST
BE A MATTER OF SORT OF HOW
WE'RE USING TERMS.
I'M INTERESTED IN WHAT YOU'RE
TALKING BUT I'M ALSO INTERESTED
IN SMALL UNITS DOWNTOWN THAT
LIKE A YOUNG PROFESSIONAL COULD
LIVE IN THAT DOESN'T COST FOUR
THOUSAND DOLLARS A MONTH OR
WHATEVER IT IS, YOU KNOW, I
MEAN SO SO THAT YOU KNOW,
SOMEBODY WHO'S SOMEBODY WHO
WORKS AT MY FIRM, SOMEBODY
WHO'S LIKE A TEACHER OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT, THEY MAY
LIVE IN A TINY LITTLE POSTAGE
STAMP BUT THEY HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO LIVE DOWNTOWN.
IT'S NOT JUST STUDENT HOUSING
OR HUGE TOWNHOUSES.
>> SO I KIND OF I WANT BOTH.
>> YEAH.
I WANT SO I DON'T WANT TO JUST
GOT UNITS.
YEAH YEAH THEY ARE YEAH.
THERE YOU GO.
YEAH.
HOW AGAINST A FURTHER RATE.
RIGHT THAT'S FURTHER DOWN THE
LINE BUT I THINK ALSO WHAT WE
COULD DO IS NUMBER FIVE BUT
IT'S GOOD TO BE THINKING ABOUT
THAT BECAUSE WE ALL THINK IN
DIFFERENT WAYS.
SOME OF US THINK BIG TO LARGE
SOME OF THE THINGS ARE SMALL,
SOME OF US THINK IN CIRCLES SO
WE NEED TO HAVE A GOOD
DISCUSSION.
BUT I THINK LISTENING TO WHAT
YOU'RE SAYING I NUMBER FIVE
IT'S CURRENT DOWNTOWN
RESIDENTIAL IS EITHER HIGH END
LOW SKILL RESIDENTIAL COMMA
OXFORD COMMA OR STUDENT HOUSING
THE CURRENT MARKET DOES NOT
SUPPORT BUILDING A TRAINABLE
HOUSING DOWNTOWN THAT IS
SUITABLE FOR YOUNG
PROFESSIONALS AND NON STUDENT
HOUSEHOLDS MIDDLE YEAH.
>> YEAH IT'S LIKE MIDDLE AND
LOW AND SO LIKE MIDDLE CLASS OR
MIDDLE CLASS.
SO I THINK I THINK WE CAN WE
CAN TAKE THAT AND WE CAN
REWRITE THESE AND WE WOULD
OF COURSE BRING THEM BACK TO
YOU WHEN YOU COME TO ACTUALLY
TO THE NEXT SESSION.
>> SO WE TALKED ABOUT THE
MISSING MIDDLE AND REALLY
CHANGE THAT FOCUS.
SO IT'S NOT SO MUCH ABOUT THE
BUILDING FORM.
IT'S ABOUT WHAT TYPE OF UNITS
ARE BEING DEVELOPED IN THE
BUILDINGS DOWNTOWN AND WHO THEY
CAN BE JUST RENTED BY AND LIVED
IN BY AND THEN WHAT I'M SEEING
IN MY LIST THAT WE HAVEN'T
TOUCHED ON THAT COMMISSIONER
SUAVI ASKED WAS ON THE BALANCE
THE LAND USES AND IS DOES
SOMETHING NEED TO CHANGE THESE
WORKING ASSUMPTIONS AND WHICH
HOPEFULLY WILL BE AGREEMENTS BY
THE TIME OF OUR NEXT SESSION
THAT IS THERE NEED TO BE
SOMETHING MORE AROUND THAT
BALANCE DESCRIPTION IN FIRST
ASSUMPTION
.
YES, I'M JUST GOING TO LIKE
ANOTHER WAY MIGHT BE TO THINK
ABOUT IT AS LIKE A BALANCE
OF LAND DEVELOPMENT AND USES
BECAUSE I THINK WHAT I GUESS
WHAT I'M TRYING TO GET AT IS
MAKING IT VERY CLEAR IF ONE
OF THE ASSUMPTIONS IS THAT WE
WANT TO BALANCE WHERE WE'RE AT
OR SET A NEW BAR THAT
EVERYTHING REACHES IN BALANCE
IF THAT MAKES SENSE.
>> RIGHT.
LIKE WE ZONE IT'S NOT JUST
HOUSING BECAUSE THEN WE'RE OFF
KILTER WITH THE OTHER MIXED
JUICES.
ARE WE INTERESTED IN ZONING
EVERYTHING AS A PROP. WHICH
MEANS WE'RE INTERESTED IN AS WE
UPSON MAKING SURE WE MAINTAIN A
BALANCE THAT THEY WORK TOGETHER
OR ARE WE INTERESTED IN RIGHT
NOW UNBALANCED BECAUSE WE DON'T
HAVE ENOUGH RESIDENTIAL ARE WE
JUST INTERESTED IN THE
ASSUMPTION THAT OUR GOAL IS TO
GET A BALANCED AMOUNT
OF HOUSING TO MATCH THE CURRENT
AMOUNT OFFICE RESTAURANT MIXED
USE OTHER THINGS IF IT HELPS
ANYBODY I'M IN THE EARLIER
CATEGORY LIKE ZONE AND ADD A
BIT MORE OF EVERYTHING BUT I
WANT TO PUT THAT OUT FOR
EVERYBODY TO CONSIDER IS
EVERYBODY LIKE WORKING ON THE
ASSUMPTION AND GOALS OF UP
ZONING VERSUS BUT GETTING THE
RESIDENTIAL INTO A BALANCED LAW
OFFICE THOUGH.
>> YEAH YEAH RIGHT.
WELL I THINK THAT'S WHERE THE
METRICS TELL US HOW IT GETS
BALANCED AND IF I CAN THROW OUT
ONE THING I THINK THAT'S AN
EXCELLENT QUESTION.
I JUST WANT TO ADD ONE LAYER TO
THE CONVERSATION OF THAT
QUESTION.
KEEP IN MIND THAT WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT ZONING WHICH IS A VERY
SPECIFIC TOOL.
IT'S A BIT OF A HAMMER.
IT'S HARD TO HAVE BE VERY FINE
GRAINED AND HAVE IT BE
ADAPTABLE TO EVERY SITUATION
THAT'S REALLY WHERE YOUR MASTER
PLAN, YOUR COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
COMES IN AND LOOKING FOR THOSE
AND SETTING THE GOALS TO ME AND
WHAT YOU USE ZONING FOR IS TO
VERY SPECIFICALLY SAY WHAT YOU
WANT AND THEN AND THEN ASK
DEVELOPMENT TO GIVE THAT TO YOU
AS THINGS ARE BUILT NEAR CITY
.
SO WHILE THAT BALANCE IS GREAT,
SOMETIMES THE ZONING MAY NOT
ALWAYS BE THE BEST TOOL OR KNOW
THAT YOU NEED TO AMEND IT AS
YOU HAVE DONE WITH PREMIUMS
EVERY FIVE TO SEVEN YEARS.
ALL RIGHT.
SO GO BACK AND DISCUSS
COMMISSIONER SUAVI QUESTION
BECAUSE I SAW I SAW THAT CITY
COUNCILWOMAN GISH HAD A COMMENT
AND THEN ALSO PLANNING
COMMISSIONER MILLS COMMISSIONER
JUST LET ME GO FIRST SO
COMMISSIONER SAUVé, THANK YOU
FOR BRINGING THAT UP.
I THINK AND AND I'LL ANSWER BY
LIKE HOW I FEEL ABOUT
SUSTAINABILITY.
THIS IS IT'S GOING TO GET TO TO
ANSWER HOW I FEEL ABOUT
SUSTAINABILITY ELEMENTS WITHIN
IN RESIDENTIAL VERSUS
NONRESIDENTIAL.
IT'S QUITE DIFFERENT HONESTLY
BECAUSE OF BECAUSE WE ARE OUT
OF WHACK WITH HOW HOW MUCH
NONRESIDENTIAL WE HAVE COMPARED
TO RESIDENTIAL.
>> AND SO I KNOW THAT I ALSO
KNOW THAT PART OF THE
SUSTAINABILITY ELEMENT ALONG
WITH OVERALL MORE HOUSING UNITS
ARE PART OF THIS DISCUSSION.
SO I AM MUCH MORE COMFORTABLE
PARTICULARLY IF IF EVERYTHING
GOING FORWARD DOESN'T HAVE TO
HAVE BOTH OF THOSE IF I'M
TOTALLY COOL WITH THE LIKE WE
KNOW WE'RE OUT OF WHACK.
WE DON'T HAVE ENOUGH
RESIDENTIAL SO INCREASE SAYING
THAT I'M I'M NOT 100 PER CENT
SURE HONESTLY HOW I FEEL ABOUT
LIKE INCREASING AT ALL IF IT
DOESN'T ALSO HAVE IF THOSE THAT
NON RESIDENTIAL ELEMENTS DON'T
HAVE ALL OF THE SUPER STRONG
SUSTAINABLE THINGS THAT WE THAT
WE NEED.
SO I SO I DON'T THINK SO I'M
MUCH MORE COMFORTABLE WITH I
THINK WHAT I HEARD YOU SAY
WHICH WAS LIKE YEAH RIGHT NOW
WE ARE OUT OF BALANCE AND
RATHER THAN TO WRITE SOMETHING
THAT LIKE ADJUSTS OVER TIME
THAT MAYBE WE I'M MUCH MORE
COMFORTABLE WITH THE HAMMER
OF LIKE WHAT IS IT THAT WE'RE
LACKING RIGHT NOW OVERALL IN
THAT IN THAT CONTEXT?
>> I GUESS THE OTHER THING IS
ARE YOU OK WITH BUILDING MORE
HOUSING THAT WE'RE OUT
OF BALANCE THE OTHER WAY BUT
STILL ALLOWING MORE SPACE TO
KIND OF REBALANCE SINCE SENSE.
SO THAT'S THE KIND OF LIKE
BALANCE UP TO OUR CURRENT MAX
IF WE STILL DEVELOP THE AREA
LEFT TO GET BALANCED VERSUS
UPSON AND YOU KNOW, PARTIALLY
LET THE MARKETS IN TERMS OF HOW
OUR ZONING IS GOING TO ALLOW OH
YEAH.
>> SO LIKE MORE HOUSING THAN
WHAT THE RATIO WOULD SAY JUST
YEAH.
>> YEAH.
DO YOU SEE LIKE SETTING A
CERTAIN LIMIT VERSUS GROWING
THE LESS AND I THINK WHEN WE
GET TO GOALS YEAH.
GOING TO ASSESS ITSELF OUT
THAT'S YEAH YEAH YEAH IT'S
GETTING A LITTLE INTO THE
NUANCE.
YEAH LIKE OK JUST A LITTLE BIT
DIFFERENT THAN WHAT I THOUGHT
YOU WERE LIKE BUILD A LITTLE
BIT OF EVERYTHING YOU KNOW LIKE
LIKE I WANT TO KEEP IT WITH
YEAH.
>> NO ABILITY BECAUSE OF THOSE
RATIO OK OK OK WE'RE GOOD OK SO
YES SO I JUST WANT TO PUT IN A
WORD AND THAT IS RESTAURANTS I
THINK THEY ARE ALSO A CORE
THING AND I WOULD BE SAD IF WE
BUILT A BUNCH OF HOUSING AND
ALL THE RESTAURANTS WERE
KNOCKED OVER AND COULDN'T COME
BACK.
YES OH ABSOLUTELY.
I MEAN A PART OF THIS IS YOU'VE
GOT TO MAKE IT FUN, RIGHT?
PEOPLE DON'T WANT TO LIVE
DOWNTOWN IF IT'S NOT FUN.
>> THAT'S THE WHOLE IDEA.
YOU WANT CLOSE PROXIMITY BUT
ONE OF THE CHALLENGES
OF RESTAURANTS I HEAR VERY
FREQUENTLY IS ACCESS TO LABOR.
>> RIGHT.
THE FOLKS THAT ACTUALLY WORK AT
THE RESTAURANTS ARE LIVING IN
YPSILANTI.
THEY'RE LIVING THE PERIPHERY SO
BY BRINGING WHAT WERE WE TALKED
ABOUT A BALANCE OF DIFFERENT
HOUSING USES.
WE CAN ALSO HELP TO BOLSTER I
THINK RESTAURANT USES THE LET
ME I'M GOING TO SWITCH GEARS
JUST A LITTLE BIT ON THE
ASSUMPTIONS PORTION.
IT DOES SAY CURRENT PREMIUMS
ARE NOT BEING UTILIZED TO A
VARIETY OF USES.
SEEMS A LITTLE BROAD AND I
WONDER BECAUSE YOU GUYS HAVE
THIS CHART IT'S ON PAGE SIX ALL
THE WAY ON THE BOTTOM IS THAT
TRUE BECAUSE I'M LOOKING AT A
TOTAL OF CONSTRUCTED AND OVER
DOWNTOWN PROJECT BY CPC
APPROVAL DATE WITH AND WITHOUT
PREMIUMS AND WHAT I SEE ARE ONE
TWO FOUR FOUR PROJECTS USING
PREMIUMS AND FOR PROJECTS NOT
USING PREMIUMS.
SO IS THAT AN ACCURATE
ASSUMPTION?
WHAT IS THE DATA TELLING YOU?
I MEAN I'M JUST LOOKING AT THIS
CHART FOR THE FIRST TIME AND
ACTUALLY BEN AND I HAD A
DISCUSSION ABOUT THAT TODAY
WHEN WE WERE LOOKING AT AND
BANDS THAT HAD THE OBSERVATION
THAT YOU DID IS THAT IT DOESN'T
SEEM LIKE THEY'RE NOT BEING
UTILIZED.
THEY'RE NOT BEING UTILIZED BUT
I WHAT THE WAY I I LOOKED IS
WHEN THE CHANGE WAS MADE IN
TWENTY EIGHTEEN.
MM HMM.
TO REALLY FOCUS ON AFFORDABLE
HOUSING AND LINK THAT TO
RESIDENTIAL PREMIUMS THAT
THERE'S AN ASSUMPTION THAT THAT
WOULD SHIFT WHAT HAPPENED.
BUT IF YOU LOOK AT THE
HISTORICAL PATTERNS HMM.
YOU DIDN'T GET A WHOLE LOT MORE
BANG FOR YOUR BUCK WITH THAT
POLICY CHANGE AND IF YOUR GOAL
IS TO INCREASE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING AND YOU'RE STILL JUST
MAINTAINING AT THIS LEVEL YOU
GO UP AND DOWN.
YEAH.
AND I THINK SOME OF THOSE COULD
BE ARGUED THAT YOU GO UP AND
DOWN THROUGH THERE'S ECONOMIC
SHOCKS LIKE THE GREAT RECESSION
AND ALSO THE PANDEMIC.
YOU CAN SEE THAT BUT ALSO TO
USE A SPORTS ANALOGY, EVERYBODY
WATCHES THE PREMIER LEAGUE
FOOTBALL.
>> YOU'LL KNOW THAT WHENEVER
THEY SOCCER.
YEAH.
THANK YOU.
WHENEVER THEY GET A NEW MANAGER
THEY WIN FOR THE FIRST FOUR
GAMES AND THEN THEY GO DOWN AND
IT SEEMS LIKE YOU HAVE THAT
WITH YOUR POLICY CHANGES WHEN
YOU MAKE A POLICY CHANGE DALLAS
AND SOMEBODY FIGURES IT OUT
THERE'S LIKE PROBABLY TWO TWO
PEOPLE.
THEY FIGURE IT OUT.
THEY GO LIKE CRAZY.
AND THEN TALKING TO ALEXIS
SHE'S ACTUALLY SAID LIKE WELL
HER OBSERVATION AND ALEXIS YOU
CAN REALLY AND IF I'M WRONG IS
THAT GO LIKE CRAZY AND THEN ALL
OF A SUDDEN EVERYBODY GOES
WHOA, WE GOT A LOT GOING ON.
THIS IS TOO MUCH WE NEED TO
STOP OR WE NEED TO CHANGE IT
AND THEN WE DON'T EVER KEEP
GOING UP.
SO SOMETIMES IT MIGHT NOT BE A
MATTER TIME OR AND THEN ALSO
THERE ARE SOME THINGS WHERE YOU
GOT YOU ALSO GIVE YOUR
DEVELOPERS A LOT OF CHOICES.
RIGHT.
EVEN WITH THE STRIPPED DOWN
MODEL THERE'S A LOT OF CHOICES
AND STAFF GETS EMAILS FROM
DEVELOPERS SAYING I DON'T
UNDERSTAND IT AND WHEN
DEVELOPERS DON'T UNDERSTAND
THINGS YOU DON'T TAKE YOUR BAIT
.
AND SO THAT'S PART OF I THINK
WHAT'S GOING ON.
SO YOU'VE GOT A LOT STUFF GOING
ON.
BUT AGAIN, WE WANT TO MAKE SURE
THAT SO I THINK THAT'S WHAT
GOES INTO THAT ASSUMPTION THAT
THERE'S A VARIETY OF REASONS
AND THAT YOU'RE NOT GETTING
WHAT YOU WANT AND YOU'VE HAD
THESE SPIKES AND GO BACK AND
SPIKES AND GO BACK BUT YOU
HAVEN'T EVER HAD SOMETHING
WHERE YOU FELT LIKE WOW, THIS
WAS SUCCESSFUL ALL THE WAY
THROUGH AND YOU CAN SEE THAT
RAMP UP.
DO YOU FEEL THAT THAT'S AN
ACCURATE DESCRIPTOR?
I THINK AS SOMEONE WHO HAS BEEN
OUTSIDE OF THIS PROCESS COMING
INTO IT, THE THING THAT I
OBSERVED WAS THAT'S WHAT I
MEANT BY THE POLICY A. CHANGE
OK.
AND WHAT I OBSERVED WAS WHAT
YOU WERE TALKING ABOUT AND THEN
THERE WAS A VOTING SHIFT IN THE
COMMUNITY AND THOSE ELECTORATES
CHANGED THE POLICY AND NOW
WE'RE IN ANOTHER ONE OF THOSE
SHIFTS.
SO WE JUST HAD A WHOLE NEW
SLATE OF CANDIDATES WHO ALL
CAMPAIGNED ON HOUSING.
>> BUT WE STILL HAVE SOME
OF THE PASSPORT POLICY
DECISIONS THAT WERE RESTRICTIVE
IN HOUSING ALL THE WAY DOWN TO
HOW IT AFFECTS OUR ACTUAL
DOCUMENTS.
SO THE ORIGINAL EIGHT TO ZERO
PLAN HAD IN IT IN ITS HOUSING
SECTION THE MISSING MIDDLE BY
WRIGHT THAT GOT STRUCK AND SO
IT HASN'T BEEN PUT BACK AND NOW
THE PLAN IS COMING AND IT'S SO
THAT'S WHAT I WAS GETTING AT
LIKE FROM MY OBSERVATION.
SO I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S A MAYBE
IT IS THE MANAGER IN THE
MANAGER OF THE TEAM, THE
ELECTORATES AND IT WAS HEY
THERE'S JUST TOO MUCH
DEVELOPMENT THAT'S HAPPENING IN
THIS SPACE.
MHM.
SO THAT WAS MY THAT'S WHY I
ASKED FOR THE POLICY SHIFTS TO
BE ADDED TO YOUR DATA BECAUSE I
THINK THE ELECTORATE WHO SET
THE POLICY ALSO INFLUENCE WHAT
WE SEE IN THESE ZONING AREAS.
>> OK SO BACK TO ASSUMPTIONS SO
WE HAD TO EDIT THAT I THINK
EVERYBODY AGREED TO UM IS THERE
ANYTHING YOU FEEL THAT IS
MISSING THAT HAS TO BE A CORE
ASSUMPTION AS THIS DISCUSSION
GOES FORWARD
?
I DON'T KNOW HOW TO SAY THIS SO
I'LL JUST QUOTE SOMEONE THE
MAYOR SAID THE ANN ARBOR NEEDS
MORE AND OPERATES AND I JUST I
I JUST FEEL LIKE THAT HAS TO BE
SOME SOMEWHERE IN HOW WE'RE
THINKING ABOUT WHAT THIS LOOKS
LIKE BECAUSE AND I DON'T KNOW
YOU ALL CAN CHECK ME BUT I HEAR
A LOT FROM FOLKS WHO COME TO
THIS PODIUM AND THEY'LL SAY
THINGS LIKE ANN ARBOR IS FULL
BECAUSE THEY HAVE A VISION
OF THE CITY THAT SAYS I DON'T
WANT THIS KIND OF DEVELOPMENT
LIKE YOU'RE CHANGING THE
CHARACTER OF THE CITY THAT I
MADE A DECISION
TO MOVE TO 30
YEARS AGO AND IT IS
UNRECOGNIZABLE AND I DON'T LIKE
THAT AND I JUST FEEL LIKE THERE
HAS TO BE SOMEBODY WHO IS
SAYING SOMEWHERE THAT WE'RE
MOVING IN A SPECIFIC DIRECTION
AND THAT POLICY FOLLOWS THAT
VISION BECAUSE OTHERWISE WE'RE
DOING THIS.
TUGG THIS BACK AND FORTH TUG
ALL THE TIME AND I DON'T IT'S
EXHAUSTING FOR ME BUT IT'S LIKE
OH WELL I'M HERE AT THE TABLE
SO I'M GOING TO VOTE FOR
HOUSING BUT IT'S FRUSTRATING I
THINK FOR RESIDENTS BECAUSE
IT'S NOT A CLEAR ARTICULATION
THAT THE CITY SHOULD GROW.
AND ONE THING TO LOOK AT IS IN
NINETEEN SEVENTY WHEN THEY WERE
HAVING A SIMILAR CONVERSATION
LIKE THIS THEY WERE PROJECTING
ONE THEY WERE EXCLUDING BLACK
PEOPLE LIKE MYSELF SO THAT I
COULDN'T LIVE HERE BUT THEY
WERE PROJECTING THAT THE CITY'S
GROWTH RATE WOULD BE NEARING
200000.
MM HMM.
IN THE EARLY AUGHTS AND WE'RE
NOWHERE NEAR THAT KNOW.
RIGHT.
AND THAT'S BECAUSE THOSE THERE
HASN'T BEEN THIS CLEAR VISION
THAT THIS IS A DIRECTION THAT
WE WANT TO MOVE IT AND TO WHAT
YOU'RE SAYING PLAN COMMISSIONER
WHY SHE WHITE THANK WHICH I
THINK WHEN WE WERE TALKING
ABOUT NUMBER FIVE THAT THE
CURRENT MARKET DOESN'T SUPPORT
BUILDING OF ATTAINABLE HOUSING
DOWNTOWN MAYBE WE SAY THAT FOR
INCORPORATE IT IN THAT BECAUSE
I THINK THAT CAPTURES A LOT
OF THINGS THAT WHAT YOU WERE
TALKING AND WE DON'T HAVE TO
DECIDE THAT WORD RIGHT NOW.
I THINK WE DO JUST TO HAVE THE
SPIRIT OF IT.
LET US TAKE IT BACK AND BRING
IT AND BRING SOMETHING BACK TO
YOU.
>> BUT WHAT I'M HEARING FROM
YOU ALL IS THAT YOU'RE LOOKING
FOR PEOPLE WHO THAT THERE'S
HOUSING DOWNTOWN, THAT PEOPLE
WHO WORK HERE AND WHO LIVE HERE
CAN SEE THEMSELVES IN AND
ACCESS AND BE THERE AND SEE
THEMSELVES THERE TEN YEARS FROM
NOW >> MAYBE FRAME IN ANOTHER
WAY WHEN YOU FIRST HEARD THAT
IT FELT LIKE IT WAS VERY
GATEKEEPING.
>> I GUESS I FILTERED IT WRONG
IN MY HEAD.
YEAH, IT'S THERE LIKE IN OUR
BRAINS AS WE ARE INSTEAD
OF LIKE WHO COULD BE.
>> SO I MADE A REALLY FUNNY
FACE THAT YOU LIKE PUT I THINK
ANOTHER CONVERSATION THAT
HAPPENS A LOT AROUND THIS TABLE
IS THAT LOCAL POLICY DECISIONS
HAVE REGIONAL IMPACT TO OUR
SUSTAINABILITY GOALS IS ANOTHER
WAY AND WHAT WE TALK ABOUT WITH
THAT IS IF WE BECOME VERY
RESTRICTIVE AND ADJACENT
MUNICIPALITIES ARE NOT
DEVELOPERS ARE GOING TO OPT TO
BE THERE AND THE COMMUTER
TRAFFIC BECOMES THE THING
INSTEAD OF THIS IS IN TERMS
OF WHAT YOU CAN DO IN A
WALKABLE AREA AND I THINK THAT
MAYBE WHAT FISHER WHITE IS
TALKING ABOUT A LITTLE BIT LIKE
WE'RE GOING TO LOSE THEM.
YOU KNOW, TO THE SURROUNDING
COMMUNITIES BECAUSE THAT'S
WHERE THEY CAN AFFORD TO BE BUT
THEY'RE STILL TRYING TO CONNECT
IN AND THEN AGAIN TO I THINK
COMMISSIONER MILLS'S POINT IS
LIKE THERE'S A COURSE
SUSTAINABILITY COMPONENT THAT
OVERLAPS WITH HOUSING LIKE
THERE ARE TWO GOALS BUT MOST
OF THE TIME THEY ACTUALLY
OVERLAP.
SO LIKE IF THERE'S ANYTHING
IT'S SOME WAY TO RECONCILE
THOSE TWO THINGS IN AN
ASSUMPTION THAT THOSE AREN'T
SEPARATE GOALS BUT THEY'RE VERY
MUCH MARRIED.
>> SO LET ME REGIONAL
SUSTAINABILITY IMPACT POLICY SO
WELL YOUR DOWNTOWN POLICY
INFLUENCE REGIONAL
SUSTAINABILITY.
YEAH.
AND THE WHAT'S WHAT'S WHAT'S
ALLOWED OR SANITIZED TO BE
BUILT IN DOWNTOWN IS PART OF IS
PART OF THAT POLICY.
SO MARRYING THESE TWO TOGETHER
THIS REGION IS GROWING AND
THOSE PEOPLE ARE GOING TO LIVE
SOMEWHERE AND WHICH IS I THINK
WHAT COMMISSIONER WHICH WAS
SAYING LIKE SOME PEOPLE SAY
WE'RE FULL NOT HERE AND I THINK
THAT THE THE CORE ASSUMPTION
HERE THAT I THINK WE CAN AGREE
ON AS A BODY THAT WE SHOULD
MAKE EXPLICIT TO EVERYONE ELSE
IS THAT WE THINK THIS REGION IS
GROWING AND THAT LIVING IN ANN
ARBOR PARTICULARLY IN THE AREAS
THAT ARE BEST WALKABLE IS
MORSES DANIMAL THAN ELSEWHERE.
OK, I WOULD ADD THAT THIS
REGION IS GROWING, THIS REGION
HAS BEEN GROWING AND THE
POPULATION GROWTH IN ANN ARBOR
HAS LAGGED FAR BEHIND THE
REGIONAL POPULATION BECAUSE
OF OUR RESTRICTIVE AND WE DON'T
WANT TO SEE THAT TREND LINE
ANYMORE.
>> OK, ALL RIGHT.
IF I IF WE ADD A SEVENTH CALL
THAT HAS THAT AND ALL THE OTHER
THINGS THAT WE'VE TALKED ABOUT,
DO YOU FEEL AS A AS A GROUP
RIGHT NOW THAT WE CAN MOVE
FORWARD ON THESE ASSUMPTIONS
AND THAT WE CAN WORK FROM THEM
THROUGH THE REST OF THE PROCESS
?
>> EXCELLENT.
OK, NEXT THING WHOO HOO!
ALL RIGHT.
AND THIS IS GOING TO WE'RE
GOING TO DO THIS THIS WE'RE
GOING TO DO A LITTLE BIT I'M
ASKING YOU TO BE A LITTLE BIT
QUICKER AND I'M GOING TO ASK
EVERYBODY TO SAY SOMETHING.
SO THERE'S THIS LIST OF GOALS
THAT ARE HERE AND THOSE WERE IN
YOUR PACKAGE IN OUR REPORT AS
WELL HOUSING GENERAL AFFORDABLE
ACCESSIBLE, MISSING MIDDLE.
BUT MAYBE THAT COMES OUT AND WE
SAY HIGHER DENSITY ENERGY
EFFICIENCY AND WE TALKED ABOUT
IN THE REPORT AND SOME OF THIS
WAS MY BRINGING THE
CONVERSATIONS I HAD HEARD THE
LAST TIME AROUND WERE WE TALKED
NOT ONLY ENERGY EFFICIENCY
BUILDING BY BUILDING, WE TALKED
ENERGY EFFICIENCY IN THE
DOWNTOWN OVERALL AND REMEMBER A
LOT OF BACK AND FORTH ABOUT
DIFFERENT OPTIONS ON THOSE.
AND SO IF THAT'S PART OF A GOAL
WANTED TO HAVE THOSE AS
POSSIBLE POLICY OPTIONS FOR US
TO DISCUSS LATER DOWN THE ROAD
AT THE NEXT MEETING.
SO KEEP THOSE IN THE BACK
OF YOUR HEAD SUSTAINABLE AGAIN
.
YOU COULD USE THOSE FRAME SAME
FRAMES.
IS IT BUILDING BY BUILDING OR
IS IT THE DOWNTOWN OVERALL AND
HAD SOME QUESTIONS ABOUT WHAT'S
THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN ENERGY
EFFICIENCY AND SUSTAINABILITY.
SO WITH ENERGY EFFICIENCY
YOU'RE REALLY LOOKING AT THE
MEASURES OF THE EFFICIENCY
OF THE ENERGY USE EITHER IN THE
DOWNTOWN OR IN THE BUILDING
ITSELF.
WHEN YOU GET INTO
SUSTAINABILITY YOU'RE ALSO
TALKING ABOUT LOCATION.
YOU'RE ALSO TALKING ABOUT GREEN
INFRASTRUCTURE.
YOU'RE ALSO TALKING ABOUT
TRANSIT.
SO A LOT OF DIFFERENT THINGS
CAN COME INTO SUSTAINABILITY
OF WHICH ENERGY EFFICIENCY IS A
PART.
BUT SO YOU COULD HAVE A GOAL
THAT AROUND ENERGY EFFICIENCY
AND AROUND SUSTAINABILITY AND
THOSE COULD BE LINKED BUT
THEY'RE ACTUALLY PRETTY
DIFFERENT SOMETIMES WHEN YOU'RE
LOOKING AT DIFFERENT MEASURES.
>> SO THOSE THREE REFLECTING ON
YOUR DISCUSSIONS WITH YOU AND
IN TALKING TO STAFF SEEMED LIKE
THOSE ROSE TO THE TOP THAT
THOSE WERE THREE THINGS THAT WE
KNEW WERE HIGH PRIORITIES FOR
YOU.
THESE OTHER THINGS CAME UP
EITHER THAT YOU INCENTIVIZE
THEM NOW THEIR GOAL NOW OR THEY
WERE IN CASE STUDIES THAT WE
LOOKED AT PEDESTRIAN AMENITIES
AND ACTIVITIES THAT COULD BE
THE AMENITIES THAT YOU THAT
THAT YOU INCENTIVIZE RIGHT NOW
MORE IT COULD BE ACTIVE FIRST
FLOOR USE WHICH GETS TO SOME
OF THE CONCERNS WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT RESTAURANTS IN THAT MIX
TRANSPORTATION RIGHT NOW YOU
INCENTIVIZE PARKING AND TALK
ABOUT PARKING LOTS OF THINGS
BACK AND FORTH ABOUT PARKING
BUT ALSO THERE ARE MANY OTHER
COMMUNITIES THAT LOOK TO
INCENTIVIZE BUILDING AROUND
TRANSIT AND TRANSIT ORIENTED
DESIGN, HISTORIC PRESERVATION
RIGHT NOW THAT'S SOMETHING
THAT'S INCENTIVIZED AND THAT'S
ON A BUILDING BY BUILDING
BASIS.
HOWEVER, IF YOU LOOKED AT AND
THIS MIGHT BE A THIRD RAIL
ISSUE ALLOWING PREMIUMS IN THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT, YOU MIGHT
WANT TO LOOK AT HOW YOU KNOW,
IS THAT A GOAL AND HOW HOW DO
THOSE THINGS PLAY ALSO ACCESS
FOR DISADVANTAGED GROUPS CAME
UP UNIVERSAL DESIGN DEVELOPER
DIVERSITY AND BUSINESS TYPES IN
MICHIGAN.
>> SOME OF THESE THINGS ARE
DIFFICULT BECAUSE OF THE
BUILDING CODE AND ALSO BECAUSE
OF THE WAY OUR CONSTITUTION IS
STRUCTURED.
>> BUT IF YOU FELT LIKE YOU
WANTED TO LOOK AT THOSE, THAT'S
ALSO PART OF THE PROCESS.
BUT BASED ON THE CONVERSATION
WE HAD WE FELT LIKE THOSE FOUR
WERE THINGS THAT MAYBE YOU
WOULD WANT TO TAKE OFF THE
TABLE.
SO WHAT I WOULD LIKE IS FOR US
TO WORK FROM HERE TO HERE AND
JUST TO GIVE ME A YES NO OR
MAYBE AS TO WHETHER YOU AGREE
WITH HOW WE CLASSIFY THOSE
GOALS.
YEAH, HOW WE PRIORITIZE THEM.
SO WHETHER YES, I AGREE MAYBE I
NEED TO DISCUSS IT MORE.
>> NO, I DISAGREE.
I CAN ADD JUST ONE LAYER TO
THIS WHEN WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
PRIORITIZATION I WOULD
CHALLENGE THE COMMISSION TO
THINK ABOUT IT IN SHOULD WE
PRIORITIZE THESE AS THINGS WE
WANT TO FOCUS AND INCENT OR
THINGS WE DON'T CARE AS MUCH?
I THINK IT IS EASY TO SAY WELL
LET'S PROVIDE ALL OF THE
POTENTIAL MENU OF OPTIONS AND
BY PROVIDING A BIGGER MENU BY
NATURE WE ARE DILUTING THE
THINGS THAT MIGHT BE MOST
IMPORTANT TO US SO WHEN WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT PRIORITIZATION I
JUST WANT TO SAY THAT I'M
COMING FROM THAT AS NOT A THE
THINGS AT THE TOP ARE THE MOST
IMPORTANT.
THE THINGS ARE AT THE BOTTOM.
I WOULD APPRECIATE THE
COMMISSION'S INITIAL THOUGHTS
ON THE THINGS ON THE BOTTOM BE
THERE AT ALL.
I WOULD START FROM A PROSPECT
THAT MAYBE THEY DON'T NEED TO
BE THERE BUT SO SO FOR FOR ME
AS A FACILITATOR WE CAN
GO
THROUGH THIS EXERCISE SO I CAN
SEE WHERE PATTERNS ARE AND HELP
BETTER STRUCTURE THE STRUCTURE
OF THE CONVERSATION BECAUSE
WE'RE 10-15 AND I CAN GO LATE
BUT WE'RE HERE AS LONG AS YOU
WANT.
>> OKAY WE ALREADY STARTED WE
DON'T HAVE TO PASS ANYTHING
PARTICULAR STARTING AFTER
ELEVEN O'CLOCK.
>> OK ALL RIGHT.
SO HOW THESE ARE HOW THESE ARE
SET OUT.
YES NO MAYBE.
ALL RIGHT I'M GOING TO DO WHAT
YOU ASKED BUT MR. LEONARD JUST
ADDED A CAVEAT TO IT WHICH I DO
HAVE TO ADDRESS SO ONE MY
ANSWER IS NO AND I THINK PART
OF MY ANSWER IS NO IS BECAUSE
HAVING THE ACCESS FOR
DISADVANTAGED GROUPS HERE IS IT
IS IMPORTANT THAT WE NAME HOW
WE HAVE DESIGNED TO
INTENTIONALLY MARGINALIZE
GROUPS OF PEOPLE AND I THINK
THAT HAS TO BE ACKNOWLEDGED AND
WE ARE AT A JUNCTURE WILL WE
GET TO CHANGE THINGS AND THIS
IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR US TO
REIMAGINE.
SO I WOULD HAVE JUST SAID NO.
BUT THEN MR. LEONARD SAID
SHOULD THEY BE ON HERE AT ALL?
>> AND I THINK THE FACT THAT WE
INTENTIONALLY MARGINALIZE
PEOPLE THEREFORE WE EXCLUDE
THEM FROM HAVING ACCESS TO THE
BENEFITS OF OUR COMMUNITY.
ABSOLUTELY.
THAT HAS TO BE ON HERE AND WE
DO NEED TO REDRESS IT WHETHER
IT'S ONE OF THE TOP THREE OR
ELSE IT DOES NEED TO BE IN THE
MIX.
>> OK, THANK YOU SHARECARE I
GUESS I HAVE A LOT
OF DIFFICULTY.
I SEE THEY'RE ALSO
INTERDEPENDENT AND I WOULD
AGREE THAT ACCESS TO DISBAND
GROUPS AGING IN PLACE UNIVERSAL
DESIGN SHOULD BE A PRIORITY.
I ALSO I GUESS I STRUGGLE WITH
TRYING TO SEPARATE HOUSING FROM
TRANSPORTATION AND PEDESTRIAN
ACTIVITIES JUST BECAUSE AND
AGAIN ACCESSIBILITY THEY ALL
SEEM INTERTWINED TO ME.
UM SO I GUESS THAT'S NOT A VERY
HELPFUL ANSWER BUT UM YEAH TO
ME HOUSING IS AN ACCESS ISSUE
WHICH ENCOMPASSES QUITE A FEW
THINGS ON HERE.
OK, THANK YOU.
>> OK MAYBE AND WHAT MOTIVATES
ME IS THE ACCESS FOR
DISADVANTAGED GROUPS TO THE
MAYBE
UH MAYBE BECAUSE I BUY
SUSTAINX ABILITY UH I I'M
CURIOUS ABOUT IF
ELECTRIFICATION IS FALLS UNDER
THAT BUCKET BECAUSE THERE'S
SOME THINGS IN SUSTAINABILITY
THAT I THINK ARE JUST GIVEN
BASED ON LOCATION AND SOME
THINGS IN SUSTAINABILITY THAT
ARE NOT COVERED BY ENERGY
EFFICIENCY THAT I DO THINK
SHOULD BE A PRIORITY.
>> OK, THANK
I THINK ENERGY
EFFICIENCY I'M STRUGGLING WITH
THAT AS A CATEGORY THREE
BECAUSE I FEEL LIKE YOU COULD
HAVE AN INCREDIBLY ENERGY
EFFICIENT BUILDING AND STILL
HAVE IT BE DEPENDENT ON FOSSIL
FUELS AND THAT'S PART OF WHAT
WE'RE TRYING TO ADDRESS HERE.
SO I GET THE DIFFERENCE THAT
YOU'RE TRYING TO GO FOR IN
TERMS OF SUSTAINABILITY AND
PULLING THAT APART.
BUT SOMEHOW THAT'S NOT WORKING
FOR ME IN TERMS OF THE WAY THAT
THAT'S CATEGORIZED AND SO IT
MAY BE SOMETHING ABOUT, YOU
KNOW, FOSSIL FUEL OR YOU KNOW,
SOMETHING SOMETHING ALONG THOSE
LINES.
SO THAT IS PROBLEMATIC FOR ME
AND LIKE SOME OF THE OTHERS
HAVE SAID SOME OF THESE THINGS
THEY'RE ALL JUST SO INTERTWINED
WITH EACH OTHER THAT THEY'RE
KIND OF SORT OF AUTOMATIC.
WE GET SCOOPED UP AND SWEPT IN,
YOU KNOW, WITH SOME OF THESE
OTHER THINGS.
SO YOU KNOW, AS LONG AS
SUSTAINABILITY WE'RE THINKING
ABOUT TRANSIT WHICH YOU KNOW,
DOWNTOWN WE'RE HOW CAN WE NOT I
MEAN THAT'S THE THING IS THIS
IS NOT FOR THE WHOLE CITY.
THIS IS FOR THE DOWNTOWN.
WE'RE JUST BY DEFAULT.
YEAH.
IT'S TRANSIT.
SO IT'S LIKE DO WE EVEN NEED TO
REALLY THINK ABOUT THAT?
I MEAN YOU I DON'T KNOW WHY
THAT'S EVEN ON THE LIST IN SOME
WAY IF IT WAS THE ENTIRE CITY
THAT'S DIFFERENT.
BUT FOR THE DOWNTOWN AREA IT
FEELS KIND OF LIKE WELL YEAH,
THERE'S ACCESS EVERYWHERE BUT
MAYBE YOU HAVE A DIFFERENT
EXPLANATION OF WHY THAT WOULD
BE IN THE LIST IN THE FIRST
PLACE GIVEN THAT IT'S JUST IN
THE DOWNTOWN.
>> UM, SO YES.
AND THAT WAS SOME OF THE
PROBLEMATIC THINGS WITH THE
GREEN BUILDING LEAD IS THAT
THERE YOU AUTOMATICALLY GET
SOME SCORES BECAUSE YOU'RE IN
THE DOWNTOWN IF YOU'RE USING
THAT LEED CERTIFICATION.
BUT IF YOU ARE LOOKING AND
AGAIN THIS GETTING ON THE ROAD
IF WE'RE LOOKING AT DIFFERENT
MEASURES WHICH MAYBE IT'S
FOSSIL FUELS, MAYBE IT'S
ELECTRIFICATION, MAYBE IT'S DO
YOU HAVE GREEN INFRASTRUCTURE
THAT MAYBE HOW MUCH COOLING IS
IS IS PART OF THE BUILDING?
YOU KNOW, THESE ARE ALL
MEASURES THAT YOU COULD LOOK AT
AND SO IF THIS WAS A WAY TO GET
YOUR PRIORITIES WE DON'T HAVE
TO HAVE AND THEN WE CAN NARROW
AND BRING YOU POLICY OPTIONS TO
TALK ABOUT FOR US TO TAKE THE
STAKEHOLDERS.
SO I'M GOING TO CHECK YOU UP AS
A MAYBE AND THEN THANK YOU FOR
SHARING THOSE THE THE THOUGHTS
MAYBE.
OK, ANY THOUGHTS YOU WANT TO.
>> I WOULD I WOULD BUT YOU CAN
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY EFFICIENCY
IF IT'S MUDDLED AT THIS TABLE I
THINK TO THE POINT
OF DEVELOPERS GETTING CONFUSED
TO FIGURE OUT HOW TO RECONCILE
THAT BECAUSE TRANSIT HITS IN
THREE TO FOUR LINES HERE YOU
CAN DEFINITELY NIX PEDESTRIAN
AMENITIES, TRANSPORTATION,
HISTORIC PRESERVATION.
I'D BE VERY INTERESTED TO HEAR
STRATEGIES AND TACTICS AROUND
ACCESS FOR DISADVANTAGED GROUPS
AS IT COMES TO POLICY.
>> OK, ALL RIGHT.
I WOULD ALSO SAY MAYBE DITTO ON
THE ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND
SUSTAINABILITY IS STRUGGLING
WITH THAT AND SOME OF THESE I
GUESS TO ME AND MAYBE IT'S
BECAUSE I'M TIRED AND MAYBE
BECAUSE I MISSED THE FIRST
DISCUSSION LIKE WHEN WE SAY
LIKE THIS NECESSARILY FEEL LIKE
THEY'RE ALL SORT OF APPLES TO
APPLES LIKE HISTORIC
PRESERVATION.
A LOT OF THESE IT'S LIKE
HOUSING WE WANT ENERGY
EFFICIENCY.
WHAT IS WHAT IS THE HISTORIC
PRESERVATION COMPONENT OF SO IT
WAS A METHOD TO HAVE HISTORIC
BUILDINGS THERE OUTSIDE OF THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO BE
PRESERVED.
SO THE EXAMPLE OF WHERE THE
MOST PROMINENT EXAMPLE OF WHERE
IT WAS USED IS A HOTEL WHERE
ZINGERMAN'S AND THE BUSCOMBE
SOME IT WAS EXPRESSED TO ME
WHEN I WAS HELPING WITH THIS IN
2013 SAME KIND OF PROCESS MANY
HISTORIC PRESERVATION ADVOCATES
FELT THAT THEY CALLED IT A
FACADE ECTOMY AND IT WAS NOT A
TERM.
SO THAT'S AN EXAMPLE OF HOW I
HAVE BEEN USED.
BUT WHEN YOU HAVE SUCH STRONG
HISTORIC PRESERVATION RULES IN
YOUR HISTORIC DISTRICTS, I
WOULD SAY THAT ITS TRACK RECORD
HAS BEEN SPOTTY.
ALSO THE PREMIUM THAT WAS
OFFERED FOR IT WAS PRETTY
MINIMAL AND SO IT WASN'T VERY
OFTEN TAKEN SO THAT SOME
BACKGROUND ON THAT I MEAN I
WOULDN'T PRIORITIZE THAT.
OK, WELL MAYBE OK CONTEXT SURE.
>> I THINK THE MOST SALIENT
BOILED DOWN VERSION IS
SUSTAINABILITY, AFFORDABILITY,
EQUITY QUALITY IN THE BUILT
ENVIRONMENT.
THE ELEMENTS THAT I FIND
SOMEWHAT MISSING HERE ACTUALLY
IS ONE THAT'S NOT ON ITS LIST
WHICH IS ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
AND THE REASON I SAY THAT IS
THESE FOLKS NEED SOMEWHERE TO
GENERATE THEY NEED JOBS.
>> RIGHT?
I MEAN LIKE WE CAN BUILD ALL
THE HOUSING WE WANT BUT WE ALSO
NEED AND I ACTUALLY THINK YOU
KNOW, WE'LL TALK ABOUT THE
PEDESTRIAN AMENITIES ACTIVITIES
BECAUSE I TALKED ABOUT DOWNTOWN
IT'D BE FUN.
THAT'S WHY PEOPLE WANT TO BE
THERE RIGHT?
THEY WANT TO ATTRACT TALENT.
THEY WANT THE STOCHASTIC
INTERACTION.
AND SO I THINK ECONOMIC.
YES.
WHY DO YOU THINK OH, THE WATER
CAME OUT OF NOWHERE?
SO I THINK THE THE ELEMENTS
OF THE TOP TWO RIGHT.
SUSTAINABILITY, AFFORDABILITY,
EQUITY IN THE BUILT ENVIRONMENT
AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT IS ONE
THAT I THINK IS JUST THAT WE
ALSO NEED TO MAKE A POINT
OF SAYING WE NEED EXCITING,
VIBRANT, ATTRACTIVE STOREFRONTS
OF BEAUTY IN THE BUILT
ENVIRONMENT TO A CERTAIN
EXTENT.
SO I DON'T KNOW HOW TO REALLY
SORRY I DON'T MEAN TO
COMPLICATE THINGS BUT SOME
OF IT IS WHAT DO YOU
INCENTIVIZE AND WHAT DO YOU
REQUIRE?
>> RIGHT.
AND SO PREMIUMS ARE REALLY
INCENTIVES.
>> SO ALSO KEEP IN MIND THAT
SPECIFIC TOOL AS WE GO ON AND I
REMEMBER THE LAST TIME IN
TWENTY SEVENTEEN OR SO WE GOT
INTO SOME OF THIS IS WHAT DO
YOU REQUIRE AND THEN WHAT YOU
INCENTIVIZE AND IF THERE ARE
THINGS THAT ARE MUST REQUIRE IT
DO IT SOMEWHERE ELSE AND THE
ZONING ORDINANCE OR DO IT
SOMEWHERE ELSE BY ORDINANCE IF
YOU CAN.
THIS IS A GOOD POLICY SPACE FOR
PLACES WHERE YOU CAN'T REQUIRE
IT OR WHERE THE MARKET NEEDS A
NUDGE OR A BUMP IN ORDER TO
DELIVER WHAT YOU NEED OR WHAT
YOU WANT THEN PEDESTRIAN
AMENITIES ACTIVITIES ACTUALLY
TO ME I MEAN WHETHER IT'S IN
DESIGN REVIEW BOARD OR THERE'S
AN ELEMENT Y'ALL STOP IT THERE.
>> WE COULD KIND OF GO AROUND
AND CAN THOUGH BECAUSE SO I
JUST WAS IN VANCOUVER WHICH IS
JUST FULL FULL OF THAT.
I MEAN IT'S ASTOUNDING AND IT
WAS SO EXCITING TO BE IN A
PLACE THAT HAD HIGH DENSITY AND
ALL OF THESE WAYS FOR PEOPLE TO
BE ABLE TO MOVE THROUGH THE
CITY THROUGH GREEN CORRIDORS
AND IT IS JUST LIKE MIND
BLOWING AND IF WE JUST HAVE A
BUNCH OF CHEEK TO JOWL REALLY
TALL BUILDINGS, IT'S NOT GOING
TO FEEL GOOD.
AND SO WHAT CAN WE DO TO BE
ABLE TO AND THAT MAY BE NOT A
PERSONAL VERY PERSONAL THING
BUT WHAT CAN WE DO AS A CITY IF
YOU'RE GOING TO LIVE IN THESE
ZONES THAT YOU CAN HAVE ACCESS
TO AND SO IT'S LIKE I DON'T
THINK IS WORKING VERY WELL ON A
PERSONAL BASIS LIKE THE LITTLE
CORNER OR WHATEVER
IS NOT
REALLY HAPPENING.
>> IT'S NOT THAT EFFECTIVE BUT
I JUST FEEL LIKE THAT VISIT
REALLY CHANGED HOW I'M THINKING
IN SOME WAYS ABOUT WHAT OUR
DOWNTOWN COULD BE AND THAT WE
NEED TO DO SOME WORK AND IT'S
NOT NECESSARILY JUST LIKE A
SPOT HERE IN A SPOT THERE AND
MAY BE MORE LIKE WITHIN OUR
RIGHT OF WAYS THAT WE HAVE TO
KIND OF THINK ABOUT THESE
THINGS.
>> BUT SOMETIMES IT'S THERE YOU
CAN USE ZONING THAT IF IT'S
ABOVE A CERTAIN AMOUNT
OF DWELLING UNITS OR IF IT'S
ABOUT CERTAIN FSR OR HEIGHT,
THEN AT THAT POINT IN TIME YOU
HAVE TO PROVIDE GREEN SPACE AND
THEN YOU'RE SOMEWHERE IN THERE
AND THAT'S HOW A BUILDING BY
BUILDING BASIS BEGIN.
BUT THERE'S ALSO THINGS LIKE IF
YOU WANT TEN FOOT WIDE
SIDEWALKS YOU REQUIRE TEN FOOT
WIDE SIDEWALKS JUST AND THAT
MAY BE APPROPRIATE IN CERTAIN
PLACES LIKE IN THE DAEWON BUT
ON THE D TO THAT I'M GETTING US
IN THE WEEDS.
>> YEAH WELL I THINK WHAT'S
BEEN REALLY HELPFUL IS FOR I
THINK YOU'RE ACTUALLY BEING A
REALLY GOOD KIND OF LIKE GUIDER
BECAUSE THE IDEA OF THIS BEING
THE INCENTIVES NOT THE
REQUIREMENT.
SO THIS IS THIS IS THE
INCENTIVE DRIVER AND I NEED TO
CONTINUE TO SCOPE OUR
DISCUSSIONS OR THINK OF IT IN
THAT RESPECT.
SO IF I ABSOLUTELY HAD TO BOIL
IT DOWN THE TOP TWO
SUSTAINABILITY AND
AFFORDABILITY I THINK WOULD BE
THE KEY ONES.
I JUST DON'T NECESSARILY WANT
TO LOSE SIGHT OF THE ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT.
>> SO BUT ANYWAYS WHAT I'M
HEARING FROM YOU IS THOSE TOP
THREE ARE RIGHT AND THEN
ACTUALLY A DESIRE TO BRING THAT
ACCESS AND EQUITY CONVERSATION
INTO THAT AS WELL.
BUT PEDESTRIAN AMENITIES, THE
PARKING, THE TRANSIT AND
HISTORIC PRESERVATION THOSE
COULD FALL OFF OUR LIST AT THIS
POINT IN TERMS OF EXPLORING
POLICY OPTIONS FOR TAKING THOSE
TO STAKEHOLDERS BECAUSE THOSE
AREN'T TOP PRIORITIES IN TERMS
OF GOALS.
>> YES, I THOUGHT I UNDERSTOOD
OR I WASN'T SURE BUT IT SEEMED
THE REASON YOU SAID THE ACCESS
FOR DISADVANTAGED GROUPS WAS
WAY DOWN IS BECAUSE YOU DON'T
THINK IT'S SOMETHING THAT WE
CAN ACCOMPLISH THROUGH ZONING.
>> DID I KNOW I MISUNDERSTOOD
YOU?
OK, LAST BECAUSE THAT WAS ADDED
LAST OH WHEN WE WERE LOOKING
GOING THROUGH THINGS SO THERE'S
NO REASON THERE ARE SOME THINGS
IN THE MICHIGAN CONSTITUTION
AND THERE ARE SOME THINGS THAT
DIFFERENT MUNICIPAL ATTORNEYS
HAVE SAID YOU CAN DO AND OTHERS
HAVE SAID YOU CAN'T SAY THIS
WOULD BE THINGS WHERE WE WOULD
NEED TO GO IN MORE AND BRETZKE
TO STAND UP.
>> UM, SO WHEN I LOOK AT THAT
LAST CATEGORY JUST TO SHARE
SOME THOUGHTS, I THINK
UNIVERSAL DESIGN AND AND THE
TYPE OF UNITS OR HOUSING THAT
IS EASILY INCORPORATED WHEN
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT OUR HOUSING
GOALS.
SO PART OF THAT I THINK IS EASY
WHEN WE'RE TALKING ABOUT ACCESS
FOR DISADVANTAGED GROUPS AND
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT WE'VE
IDENTIFIED AS PART OF OUR
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN THAT WE WANT
TO UNPACK.
WE WANT TO NOT ONLY DO BETTER,
WE WANT TO TRY AND REPAIR.
MEGAN SAID SOMETHING THAT'S
REALLY IMPORTANT.
ZONING IS ONE TOOL AND IT'S A
HAMMER AND THIS IS SOMETHING WE
TALK A LOT ABOUT MAYBE I HOPE I
TALK A LOT ABOUT WITH
COMMISSIONERS WHEN WE'RE WHEN
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT A PROJECT
THEY'RE ASPECTS OF A ZONING
DECISION THAT ARE REALLY
CHALLENGING.
THERE ARE OPERATIONAL ASPECTS
THAT ARE HARD TO MANIFEST AND
AND EVALUATE AND ENFORCE THE
REZONING WHAT THE LONG TERM
OWNERSHIP IS OF A PROPERTY IS A
REALLY DIFFICULT TO BASE A
ZONING DECISION ON.
AND UNLESS YOU'RE GOING TO
RESTRICT THAT AND THAT HAS COST
AS WELL WHAT BUSINESS IS CAN OR
CAN'T BE IN SPACE ADDS
RESTRICTION AND IT'S REALLY
DIFFICULT FOR US TO MAKE A
ZONING DECISION.
THIS IS A YOU GET THIS IF YOU
COMMIT TO THIS THAT MEANS WE
EITHER HAVE TO MEMORIALIZE THAT
THAT ONLY THAT BUSINESS CAN GO
INTO THAT SPACE FOREVER OR WE
HAVE TO UNDERSTAND THAT THAT
PREMIUM NO LONGER BECOMES TIED
TO THE SUCCESS OF THAT BEING
REALIZED.
AND SO WHEN WE'RE TALKING
PARTICULARLY ABOUT
DISADVANTAGED GROUPS, DEVELOPER
DIVERSITY BUSINESS TYPES, I
WOULD JUST SHARE THOSE ARE
ABSOLUTELY GREAT GOALS.
I HAVE CONCERNS ABOUT USING
ZONING TO ACCOMPLISH THEM
BECAUSE WE HAVE TO MAKE A
DECISION AT AT THE ZONING TABLE
AND ON THE SITE AT THE TIME
THAT WE SAY WE HAND OVER THE
KEYS AND IF WE ARE GIVING FOUR
HUNDRED PERCENT F.R. BECAUSE
OF SOME OF SOMETHING THAT
REQUIRES AN OPERATIONAL
DECISION THAT WE ARE GOING TO
NOT HAVE BE PART OF THAT
TRANSACTION IN THE FUTURE, I
WOULD ENCOURAGE US JUST TO
THINK ABOUT WELL MAYBE WE JUST
ALLOW THAT FOUR HUNDRED PERCENT
OFF OUR PERIOD SO SO SO WHEN
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THE
CONSTITUTION AND AND ASPECTS
OF EQUITY, I THINK IT'S
PARTICULARLY CHALLENGING THING
FOR ZONING.
I DON'T THINK THAT WE SHOULD
LET GO.
I APPRECIATE THE COMMISSIONERS
ARE ELEVATING THAT.
I THINK THAT SHOULD BE PART
OF IT.
BUT JUST WANT A NAME WITH A
LITTLE BIT MORE SPECIFICITY
THAN WHAT MEGAN'S TALKING ABOUT
.
IT'S HARD FOR BUSINESS
OWNERSHIP DEVELOPMENT ENTITIES
TO HAVE A BEARING ON THE
PHYSICAL ASPECT OF WHAT GETS
BUILT OR WHAT DOESN'T GET BUILT
AND THAT'S WHY ZONING IS
CHALLENGING TOOL FOR FOR THAT
PARTICULAR GOAL IN SOME WAYS.
BUT THERE WHAT WE CAN DO AS WE
RESEARCH ALSO IS THAT WITH
OTHER CITIES THEY HAVE SOME
OF THE SAME GOALS TO ENACTED
DIFFERENT POLICY CHANGES AND
SOME OF THOSE ESPECIALLY
DEALING WITH RACIAL EQUITY AND
CHANGES IN THE BUILT
ENVIRONMENT ARE PROGRAMS RATHER
THAN RATHER THAN A ZONING
CHANGE.
AND SO THAT INCENTIVE IS NOT
NECESSARILY THE FLOOR HEIGHT.
THE INCENTIVE IS JUST LIKE YOU
HAVE IN GREEN FIELDS OR JUST
LIKE YOU HAVE IN BROWNFIELD'S
TO BRING THEM ON LEVEL WITH
WITH GREENFIELDS IS THAT
THERE'S TAX INCENTIVE OR SOME
SORT OF OTHER SUBSIDY IT COMES
INTO PLAY AND THAT'S A PROGRAM
THAT YOU DON'T PUT IN YOUR
ZONING ORDINANCE.
AND SO AND OFTEN THOSE THINGS
ALSO ARE WRAPPED TOGETHER.
YOU ALMOST HAVE TO HAVE A
COCKTAIL OF WAYS TO ADDRESS
THESE THINGS BECAUSE THEY'RE SO
DEEPLY INGRAINED THAT IT TAKES
A LOT OF WORK AND A LOT
OF ATTACKING FROM A LOT
OF DIFFERENT ANGLES TO REPAIR.
>> OK, SO I FEEL LIKE WE HAVE
ENOUGH TO GO ON AND GOALS AND
I'M SEEING NODS FROM YOU IN
TERMS OF WHERE WE ARE.
ONE LAST QUESTION AND THEN I'M
DONE HAND IT OVER TO BEN TO SAY
THANK YOU OR AM I DOING OK?
OK, ALL RIGHT.
NEXT SLIDE POLICY APPROACHES SO
ON PAGE FOUR OF OUR REPORT TO
YOU WE HAD THIS BROKEN DOWN BY
PROS AND CONS AND GIVING YOU
SOME EXAMPLES REALLY FROM
TONIGHT WHAT WE WOULD LIKE TO
HEAR FROM YOU AGAIN AND I'M
GOING TO WORK THIS WAY TO THIS
WAY IS THAT DO YOU HAVE OPINION
OR ON WHICH YOU FEEL WOULD BE
BEST TO EXPLORE OF THESE POLICY
APPROACHES A LARGE MENU AND
THAT'S ESSENTIALLY WHAT YOU
HAVE NOW A SMALL MENU WHERE IT
MIGHT BE TWO OR THREE
INTERRELATED THINGS MAYBE
ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND
SUSTAINABILITY TOGETHER OR
MAYBE RESIDENTIAL ALONG WITH
AFFORDABILITY TOGETHER FOR
RESIDENTIAL WITH EQUITY
TOGETHER OR IS IT BETTER TO NOT
HAVE THE INCENTIVES AT ALL AND
TO UNCAP WE REALLY DIDN'T HAVE
A CASE STUDY OF THAT BUT
BOULDER, COLORADO WHEN THEY
WERE THEY HAVE HAD INCENTIVE
INCENTIVES FOR ENERGY
EFFICIENCY FLAT OUT STATE THEY
FOUND IT TO BE INEFFECTIVE AND
THEY'RE GOING TO PURSUE
REQUIREMENTS AND SO THAT'S A
DIFFERENT POLICY APPROACH AND
SO THE EQUIVALENT OF THAT IN
THIS WOULD BE TO SAY WE'RE NOT
GOING TO PREMIUM'S ANYMORE.
WE'RE GOING TO UP WITH AN
INCREASE THE OFFER OR INCREASE
THE HEIGHT OF THE BASE AND
WE'LL SEE WHERE WE GO AND
THAT'S AN OPTION FOR YOU TOO.
>> SO I'M GOING TO WORK THIS
WAY THIS WAY AND I WANT TO HEAR
FROM EACH PLANNING COMMISSIONER
WHAT YOUR PREFERENCE IS FOR US
GOING FORWARD, WHAT YOUR
DIRECTION WOULD BE TO US TO
LOOK AT WHETHER LARGE MENU,
SMALL MENU, NO INCENTIVE.
>> SO BACK TO YOU COMMERCIALLY.
OH SURE.
TO ME IT'S THE PARADOX
OF CHOICE.
THE MORE CHOICES YOU GET
SOMEBODY THE HARDER IT GETS.
I THINK SIMPLIFICATION CAN BE A
BENEFIT I DON'T HAVE I'M NOT
GOING TO LEAN TOWARDS ONE
THING.
THERE'S PLENTY THAT A DEVELOPER
HAS TO REALLY EVALUATE, RIGHT.
THEY HAVE TO GATHER A GENERAL
PARTNERSHIP, LIMITED
PARTNERSHIP POOL.
THEY HAVE TO BRING IN EQUITY.
THEY ALSO HAVE TO LEVERAGE
RIGHT WITH A LOT OF THAT THEY
HAVE TO CONVINCE LENDERS AND
THEY WILL LOOK AT THE KIND
OF MUNICIPALITIES AND HOW
DIFFICULT THE RISK RATING
ASSOCIATED WITH THE COMMUNITY
AND AT RISK RATING KIND OF GETS
INCREASED.
THERE'S MORE HURDLES AND OR
THERE'S MORE CHOICES OR
DECISIONS THAT NEED TO BE MADE.
>> SO TO ME SIMPLIFY FRANKLY
THAT I LIKE THE BOULDER,
COLORADO JUST REQUIREMENTS.
I MEAN AT LEAST YOU'RE VERY
CLEAR ABOUT WHAT YOU NEED TO DO
.
SO SIMPLIFICATION TO ME MAKES
SENSE AND THAT'S THE WAY I BUT
THAT'S MY TWO CENTS.
>> THANK YOU FOR YOUR TWO CENTS
.
I'D AGREE THAT I DRINK THESE.
I THINK I WOULD GO WITH NO
INCENTIVE TO INCREASE DENSITY
FIRST BUT IF WE DO A LITTLE
MORE DIGGING AND FIND THAT FOR
SOME REASON THAT WOULDN'T WORK
THEN SMALL YOU PROBABLY
LAKSHMAN YOU KNOW BECAUSE IF
THAT'S WHAT WE HAVE NOW AND
IT'S NOT WORKING THEN NO THANK
YOU VERY CLEAR.
>> NO SMALL ZONE A LITTLE BIT
AND ALLOW A SIMPLE WAY TO ADD A
LITTLE BIT MORE.
>> OH THANK YOU
.
I'M SMALL TO AND AND AGAIN I
KIND OF FEEL LIKE THIS
SUSTAINABLE SUSTAINABILITY
THING REALLY COULD BE WRAPPED
TOGETHER MORE EFFECTIVELY AND
AND HOUSING AND SUSTAINABILITY
ARE MY TWO BIG TWO BIG THINGS I
AGREE WITH COMMISSIONER OBEY
AND COMMISSIONER RANDALL.
I AGREE WITH SMALL MENU.
I FEAR THE RESULTS OF GOING
WITH NO INCENTIVE BECAUSE THERE
ARE TOO MANY THINGS IN THIS
STATE THAT WE CAN'T GET BY
REQUIRING THEM.
>> MM PEDIGREE A SMALL MENU AND
THEN NO INCENTIVE AFTER THAT
SIMPLIFYING IS BETTER.
>> UH YEAH I'LL ECHO SMALL MENU
IF WE GET RID OF THE FLOOR AREA
RATIO RESTRICTIONS UM AND NO
INCENTIVE
.
CAN I JUST ASK YOU YOU WANT TO
LOOK TO HEIGHT ONLY WITHOUT FAA
RESTRICTION THAT WELL I'M
TRYING TO LIKE WHEN I LOOK AT
THE UDC A LOT OF IT OR AT LEAST
ONE OF THE KEY PREMIUM OPTIONS
IS A FLOOR AREA RATIO AND THEN
AFFORDABILITY SITS WITHIN THERE
AND BEFORE WE MADE THIS CHANGE
WE DIDN'T HAVE OR WE HAD
SOMETHING DIFFERENT WITH THE
FAA.
AH LIKE THE FAA AREA OR WE
UNLOCKED BASED ON ALL THESE I
USED TO GET UNLOCKED BASED ON
ABOUT LIKE DOING RESIDENTIAL.
NOW IF I GETS UNLOCKED DOING
AFFORDABLE RESIDENTIAL BUT IT
ALSO GETS UNLOCKED FOR
SUSTAINABILITY.
YES, SO THERE ARE YOU CAN MIX
AND MATCH TO GET THE FAA ARE
AND I DID SEND A NOTE AND ASKED
ABOUT ALL THAT THEY ARE BECAUSE
MY MEMORY IS IS THAT IT'S A NEW
ADDITION TO OUR PLANNING.
IT'S NOT SOMETHING HAS ALWAYS
BEEN THERE AND IT FEELS LIKE
WHAT WE'RE TRYING TO DO IS
RESTRICT SOMETHING USING THAT
FLIR WHETHER IT'S THE LOT SIZE,
THE HEIGHT.
AND SO I'M JUST I JUST WANTED
TO NAME IT AND PUT IT OUT THERE
AND NOW WE CAN TALK ABOUT IT TO
SEE HOW IT FITS.
I DON'T KNOW IF WE WANT TO SAY
ANYTHING OR MR. LEO SORRY
WYCLEF I WILL DEFER TO MY BOSS.
OH THANKS A LOT.
>> UM SO YEAH AND I'M SORRY I
HAVEN'T GOT YOUR RESPONSE
COMMISSIONER WHICH AND PART
OF THE REASON IS AS I SAID, I
DON'T KNOW I DON'T KNOW WHAT
THE ANSWER IS.
SO I THINK THERE'S BEEN A FAIR
HAS BEEN AROUND FOR A WHILE AND
IT'S IT'S BEEN USED IN THE CITY
FOR A WHILE.
IT'S BEEN USED IN OTHER
COMMUNITIES FOR A WHILE I WILL
SAY AND I I JUST WANT TO FULLY
NAME I NEED TO DO MORE RESEARCH
ON THIS IN THE CREATION OF THE
D ONE AND D TO DISTRICTS MY
UNDERSTANDING IS THEY WERE
ORIGINALLY CREATED SOLELY WITH
AN FAAT AND THAT WAS AND AND
SOME MUNI'S USE FOR ERROR RATIO
AS THE MODERATOR OF AREA AND
PLACEMENT.
THEY DON'T CARE AS MUCH ABOUT
SETBACKS.
THEY DON'T CARE ABOUT HEIGHT IN
MANIFESTING PARTICULAR FAAT IN
THE DOWNTOWN DISTRICT I THINK
IT WAS KIND OF AN ELEVENTH HOUR
AMENDMENT TO THE CREATION
OF THE D ONE DISTRICT TO LAYER
BOTH FAAT AND HEIGHT ON TOP
OF THAT ALEXIS IS GOING TO
CORRECT ME I'M WAY OFF SHORTLY
HERE BUT PRINCIPALLY
COMMUNITIES HAVE NOT BEEN AS WE
SEEM TO OVERSIMPLIFY
COMMUNITIES HAVE TRADITIONALLY
REGULATED BY AREA HIGH
PLACEMENT THAT IS YOU HAVE TO
BE SET BACK.
YOU HAVE TO MEET THESE HEIGHT
REQUIREMENTS AND WE DON'T CARE
WHAT ELSE HAPPENS IN THAT BOX
OR THEY ARE REGULATED BY A
DENSITY THAT IS A RESIDENTIAL
UNITS OR A SQUARE FOOTAGE BASED
ON THE SIZE OF YOUR LOT.
WE DON'T CARE HOW THAT'S
MANIFESTED OR BY FORCE AREA WE
GENERALLY THINK WE DON'T CARE
HOW THAT BUILDING IS DESIGNED
BUT WE'RE GOING TO USE FAR AS A
MACING THROTTLE AT SOME RATIO
OF THE SIZE OF THAT LOT AND I
THINK I DON'T THINK THERE'S
NOTHING WRONG WITH ANY OF THOSE
APPROACHES.
IF I HAD A CRITIQUE I THINK
THAT WHEN WE TRY TO LAYER BOTH
HEIGHT AND FAIR WE'RE PROBABLY
DIMINISHING THE USE OF BOTH
OF THOSE TOOLS.
ALEXIS, I DON'T KNOW IF YOU
WANT TO ADD ANYTHING TO THE
HISTORY OF YOUR WORK WITH
DOWNTOWNERS PANETTA LONGER THAN
I HAVE.
>> WELL, UM, I CAN CONFIRM THAT
WE'VE ALWAYS USED FLOOR AREA
RATIO THROUGHOUT THE CITY, NOT
THE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS BUT
THROUGHOUT THE CITY IN OUR
DOWNTOWN DISTRICTS AND WE HAD
PRIOR TO 82 WHICH WAS THE ANN
ARBOR DISCOVERY DOWNTOWN THAT
2009 IS WHEN IT WAS ADOPTED AND
WE CONSOLIDATED AND SIMPLIFIED
THE DOWNTOWN ZONING DISTRICTS
AND OFF THE TOP OF MY HEAD THE
DOWNTOWN WAS PRIMARILY SETU A
WHICH HAS BEEN REPEALED.
IT'S GONE AND THEN IT WAS ALSO
KTO ASGHARZADEH TO BE CITY
BLUES AND SO FORTH.
THERE WAS NO HEIGHT LIMIT IN
THE DOWNTOWN THOSE DISTRICTS UP
UNTIL 2009 AND MR. LEONARD WAS
IS CORRECT THAT THE FIRST
OF THE MOST ITERATIONS OF D1
AND D2 HAD ALSO HAD NO HEIGHT
LIMIT AND THE WAY THAT WE HAVE
A UNIQUE HYBRID KIND OF FORM BY
ZONING BUT NOT REALLY FORM
BASED ZONING FOR OUR D1 AND D2
THE D1 AND D2 BASE ZONING
DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED THE
PERMITTED USES THAT YOU CAN DO
AND SO THAT'S FAIRLY UNIFORM
BECAUSE THOSE ARE FAIRLY BROAD
DOWNTOWN AND IT ESTABLISHES THE
THE FLOOR AREA RATIO OF THE
SITE AND AND THEN THAT'S THE
CHARACTER AREAS THAT KIND OF DO
THE FORM OF THAT AMOUNT
OF FLOOR AREA THAT YOU CAN DO
AND THE CHARACTER AREAS THAT'S
WHAT HAS THE HEIGHT LIMIT.
SOME OF THEM HAVE A MAXIMUM
DIAGONAL AND THAT'S THE SIDE
AND YOUR SETBACKS AND THEN OUR
FRONT SET BACKS ARE BASED ON
THE STREET CLASSIFICATION.
SO THERE'S THREE DIFFERENT
SPOTS BUT WE HAVE A WE REGULATE
FAAT SO THAT'S NOT FORMED BY
ZONING VERY MUCH LIKE BUT WE
ALSO HAVE CHARACTER AREAS THAT
TELL HOW YOU MOWHOUSH AND SHAPE
THAT DEVELOPMENT AND BUT THE AS
MR. LEONARD MENTIONED THE SORT
OF KILLER IS THEN WE PUT A
HEIGHT LIMIT ON TOP OF THAT AND
THAT WAS ADDED VERY LATE BUT
IT'S HERE.
SO UM THAT I WOULD JUST JUMP IN
ONE MORE TIME.
YES.
WHEN WE DID OUR MOST RECENT
PREMIUM AMENDMENTS AND WE
PARTICULARLY FOR THE D ONE
WHERE WE ALLOWED THE YOU TO GET
UP TO NINE HUNDRED PERCENT WITH
OUR AFFORDABLE WITH OUR MOST
AFFORDABLE HOUSING WE ALSO
INCREASED A HEIGHT LIMIT SO
THAT YOU COULD ACTUALLY ACHIEVE
THE NINE HUNDRED PERCENT ON A
SITE INCLUDING THE HEIGHT LIMIT
OR AT LEAST GET A WHOLE LOT
CLOSER THAN YOU WOULD HAVE.
SO WE HAVE OVERCOME WE HAVE A
WORKAROUND FOR WE HAVE A WORK
BUT WE HAVE A WORKAROUND THAT
WE DIDN'T HAVE BEFORE BUT ONLY
ONE PROJECT HAS UTILIZED THAT
AND I WOULD SAY DO YOU REALLY
WANT TO CHANGE HOW YOU REGULATE
THE SIZE AND FORM OF DOWNTOWN
TALK ABOUT THAT IN YOUR
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND LAY OUT
WHAT THAT IS AND THAT'S A GOOD
PLACE TO TALK ABOUT WHAT WE
WANT TO REQUIRE WHAT WHERE
FLOORS ARE, WHERE WE LOOK TO
HAVE ZONING CHANGES AND WHAT WE
WANT THEN YOU CAN AFTER THAT
AFTER YOU HAVE A COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN, YOU USUALLY HAVE A WHOLE
MESS OF ZONING ORDINANCE
AMENDMENTS TO IMPLEMENT THAT
PLAN.
BUT WHAT WE'RE IN THIS TWILIGHT
PERIOD WHERE YOU HAVEN'T
STARTED A COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
BUT YOU'RE THINKING ABOUT IT
AND THINGS LIKE THAT AND YOU
HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY RIGHT NOW
AS YOU SAID, TO MAKE SOME
POLICY CHANGES DEALING WITH
PREMIUMS, ATARA ZONING
INCENTIVE AND SO I WANT TO
THANK YOU ALL FOR YOUR WORK
TONIGHT.
IT'S YOU'VE GIVEN US A LOT
OF GOOD FEEDBACK AND WE HAD A
GREAT CONVERSATION.
I THINK THAT WE WERE VERY
PREPARED TO COME BACK TO YOU
AND THEN ON THE NEXT STEPS
POSSIBLE IS THAT WILL GO TO
STAKEHOLDERS IS THAT WE WILL
COME BACK AND TALK TO YOU ABOUT
WHAT WE SHOULD TALK TO
STAKEHOLDERS ABOUT.
WHAT WE'LL DO IS WE'LL TAKE
THESE WE'LL REWRITE SOME
THINGS.
THOSE WILL BE IN THE REPORT.
SO AT THE SAME TIME WE'LL GIVE
YOU SOME POLICY OPTIONS.
WE WILL SAY WE THINK THAT THESE
DOVETAIL WITH WHAT WE'VE TALKED
ABOUT THE LAST ONE WHICH ONE
OF THESE ARE YOU COMFORTABLE
WITH US GOING TO TALK TO
STAKEHOLDERS TO AND WHO SHOULD
THOSE STAKEHOLDERS BE SO AND
HOPEFULLY NEXT TIME MAYBE WILL
BE FIRST ON THE AGENDA AND
WE'LL GET YOU FRESH.
ALL RIGHT.
ANY ANY LAST QUESTIONS OR
ADVICE FOR US?
>> THANK YOU.
OUR PLEASURE.
OK, WE NOW GET TO TALK ABOUT
ITEM TEN B WHICH IS THE TWENTY
TWENTY THREE CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION MEETING CALENDAR
REVISIONS TO THE ORIGINAL
CALENDAR ACCOMMODATED A
POTENTIAL ELECTION IN MAY THAT
IS NOT NECESSARY AND SO WE ARE
MOVING IT TO OUR TYPICAL
CONVENING DATE FROM MAY 3RD TO
MAY 2ND TODAY I HAVE SOMETHING
IN MY CALENDAR THAT I CAN'T
POINT TO IT SPECIFICALLY
IT
SHOWS THAT PLANNING COMMISSION
MEETING ON A FRIDAY.
AM I THE ONLY ONE THAT THAT HAS
THAT POP UP?
I I SHOULD HAVE LOOKED AT THAT
PRIOR TO SORRY AND IT'S
POSSIBLE THAT WE SENT OUT AN
ALERT APPOINTMENT OR SOMETHING
BUT I AM NOT AWARE OF ANY
MEETING IF I COME ACROSS IT I
KNOW IT'S WE DO OUR BEST BUT
WE'RE WE'RE JUST MANAGING ON
VORKUTA OUTLOOK ALREADY.
>> SO CAN I HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE COMMISSIONER SAUVé
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER DESH
DISCUSSION?
>> LET'S VOTE ON IT ALL IN
FAVOR SAY AY AY AY OK WE ARE ON
TO ITEM NUMBER ELEVEN WHICH IS
PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PEOPLE TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT ANY ISSUE THAT IS
ANYWHERE ANYTHING ON THE AGENDA
OR NOT WILL ADDRESS FIRST START
WITH PEOPLE HERE AND THEN WE'LL
MOVE REMOTELY AND FOR PHONE
ACCESS EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
AND OUR MEETING IS NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX TO UNMUTED PRESS
STAR SIX WE WILL JUST START
WITH YOU.
>> PLEASE COME UP AND SAY YOUR
NAME AND ADDRESS.
>> HELLO MY NAME IS STEVE
CHRISTENSEN.
MY ADDRESS IS TO SEVEN SEVEN
ONE ELMWOOD AND I'M HERE TO
BANG ONE DRUM TODAY AND I'LL DO
IT VERY QUICKLY AT A
RESPECTABLE VOLUME WHEN I SAW
YOU GUYS ARE GOING TO BE
TALKING ABOUT PREMIUMS AND
PRIORITIES ESPECIALLY AROUND
THE PARTICULAR ISSUE I'D LIKE
TO TALK ABOUT WHICH IS
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT, SINGLE
FAMILY HOMES MULTIBAND LAY LOW
RISE, MID RISE, HIGH RISE.
YOU KNOW WHEN I HEAR PREMIUMS I
THINK CONDITIONS RIGHT USUALLY
HAVE YOU KNOW, USUALLY
CONDITIONS TO TO RECEIVE A
PREMIUM WHEN I WHEN I HEAR
PRIORITIES I THINK ROADMAPS
WHERE PEOPLE WANT ROADMAPS TO
HIT THOSE PRIORITIES.
SO I HOPE AS YOU GUYS CONTINUE
TO THINK ABOUT THE PREMIUMS AND
THE CONDITIONS THAT YOU WANT TO
PUT ON THOSE PREMIUMS AND YOU
THINK ABOUT THE PRIORITIES AND
THE ROADMAPS YOU WANT TO GIVE
TO THE FOLKS THAT NEED TO MEET
THOSE PRIORITIES, I HOPE YOU
HERE'S THAT.
>> HERE'S THE DRUM I'M HERE TO
BANG AND THAT IS THE ENERGY
STAR RESIDENTIAL CERTIFICATION
PROGRAMS.
I HOPE YOU GUYS ARE GOING TO
CONSIDER THESE I HOPE YOU GUYS
CONSIDER INCORPORATING THEM
INTO YOUR CONDITIONS, INTO YOUR
REQUIREMENTS.
I THINK IT'S I THINK THEY'RE A
GREAT PROGRAM.
>> I'M VERY HAPPY TO SEE YOU
GUYS ARE PRIORITIZING ENERGY
EFFICIENCY.
I SEE IT AS THE CENTRAL PILLAR
OF SUSTAINABILITY.
THAT'S KIND OF HOW I VIEW ITS
ROLE AND THERE'S NOT A BETTER
PROGRAM OUT THERE THAT GIVES
THE BUILDERS DIRECTION WHETHER
IT'S, YOU KNOW, SINGLE FAMILY
HOME MULTIFAMILY FROM LOW RISE
TO HIGH RISE.
AND THE GREAT THING ABOUT IT
TOO IS IF YOU'RE GOING TO BE
REQUIRING DEVELOPERS OR
BUILDERS TO DO THIS, THERE'S
NOW THE 45 TAX CREDIT WHICH I
HOPE EVERYONE IS AWARE OF AND
IN IN THE FIELD I'M IN THE
FIELD OF WORKING WITH
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPERS AND IT
HAS BEEN A GAME CHANGER.
SO IT'S NICE TO PROVIDE AN
OPTION THAT NOT ONLY GIVES
GREAT DIRECTION, HITS THE
PRIORITIES BUT WHAT IT ALSO
KIND OF HELPS THE DEVELOPER ON
THE BACK END AND THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT CITY OF ANN
ARBOR DOESN'T HAVE TO FUND.
THIS IS THESE ARE TAX CREDITS
THAT ARE AVAILABLE TO
EVERYBODY.
>> SO THAT'S THE MAIN REASON
I'M HERE TODAY.
I HOPE I HOPE YOU GUYS ARE
ENERGY STARS RINGING IN YOUR
EARS AS YOU'RE DONE WITH THE
MEETING AND I HOPE IT'S
SOMETHING THAT YOU CONTINUE TO
CONSIDER.
>> THANK THANK YOU FOR STICKING
AROUND TO THE BITTER END.
>> THEY TELL US NOW DO WE HAVE
FOLKS WAITING VIRTUALLY FOR US?
WE HAVE ONE HENDRY'S ALEX LOWE.
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSION HAS ALEX LOWE,
33 FERNWOOD AVENUE.
I JUST WANT TO SAY LET'S GET
RID OF FAADE LIMITS.
LET'S GET RID OF HEIGHT LIMITS
AND LET'S GET RID OF MANDATORY
SAID X.
>> THANKS.
THANK YOU.
NO MORE HANDS.
NO MORE HANDS RAISED.
ALL RIGHT.
COMMISSION PROPOSED BUSINESS
COMMISSIONER LS COULD YOU
PLEASE ADD ON TO OUR LIST
OF PRIORITIES?
I NOTE ALONG WITH DRIVE THROUGH
TO REMIND US OF OUR DISCUSSION
TONIGHT SO TODAY'S DATE THANK
YOU VERY MUCH.
ANYBODY ELSE THE SAME WITH
CLUBS CLUB.
>> OH YES FOR CLUBS AT THE
BOTTOM FLOOR OF THAT BUILDING
DOWNTOWN CLUB BUT YES PROJECT
INDEX OF A RECORD IN IT FOR I
THINK THIS IS A GOOD ONE FOR
THAT TOO.
OK, ALREADY WE'RE ONTO
ADJOURNMENT MOTION TO ADJOURN
BY EVERYBODY SECONDED BY
EVERYBODY.
OK, NO ONE DISH ABOUT THAT.
WE ARE A VOTE EVERYBODY YEAH I
MOTION PICTURE WE MADE IT
BEFORE ELEVEN O'CLOCK